Sunny Savita: So, let's start with the session, let's start with the class.
Sunny Savita: If I'm audible, then please, do for me in the chat.
Sunny Savita: Great. So, good evening to all of you. I hope I am visible to everyone.
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Thank you for the confirmation, let's begin.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, good evening, Anand.
Sunny Savita: Good evening, Dinesh. Good evening, Priya.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, how many of you, you have joined my previous class? Have you joined my previous class?
Sunny Savita: If you have joined my previous session, then please, let me know that what I have discussed there.
Sunny Savita: Let me cross-check whether all the recording is up-to-date or not over the dashboard.
Sunny Savita: So guys, this is our dashboard. Once you will go and check out with the creation.com.
Sunny Savita: And you will go inside the course section.
Sunny Savita: You will get your dashboard, okay?
Sunny Savita: I think the title is the mismatched one, correct? Whatever we have learned, and the title we have written over here, over the dashboard, I think, both are not correct. So I'll do… I'll correct it. Don't worry, after the session, I'll do that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great. So, guys, inside the previous class, we understood about what? We understood, fine-tuning using the unslot, okay? So, from now onwards, whatever fine-tuning we are going to do, okay? So, we will, focus over the unslot itself. Why? Tell me why.
Sunny Savita: Because Unsloth is quite faster than this Hugging phase, okay? Native Hugging phase, basically, it was not providing us that much of a speed.
Sunny Savita: And, Unsloth, basically, it is optimized wrapper on top of the hugging phase, so we can utilize the unslot instead of the core hugging phase.
Sunny Savita: So, all the notes and all, everything is updated inside this GitHub repository. You can go and check out over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, this is the notes from the previous session, so just open this particular folder.
Sunny Savita: And check out the note from the previous class itself.
Sunny Savita: So, all the notes and all, all the notebook.
Sunny Savita: Okay, data set, everything, guys, I have updated inside this particular folder, okay, related to the previous class. Now, guys, couple of more topics is remaining inside the fine-tuning. So, before concluding this fine-tuning chapter, let me cover those topics also.
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, what I will do, after that, I will start with a new chapter. Got it? So, let me, highlight that what all topic is remaining, and, what we are going to discuss in today's session.
Sunny Savita: Understood?
Sunny Savita: So I'm giving you this particular link, this GitHub link. You can keep your… all the… you can, basically clone this particular repository inside your system.
Sunny Savita: And keep all the nodes and all everything inside your system only.
Sunny Savita: Nope.
Sunny Savita: I'm good.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Dinesh, I will discuss the OpenAI fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: how you can fine-tune the OpenAI model.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Krishna, I've seen your mail. I think you've written all the requirements and all everything over there. So, can you write once inside the community chat also? So you can directly get the responses?
Sunny Savita: So just create one Google Form with all the job description and all everything, right? And please, write, sorry, please, basically post it inside the committee chat.
Sunny Savita: Then I'll check with the team if Rahul can mail to everyone, okay? That's the same mail, actually. So, I'll ask to the team, okay?
Sunny Savita: Krishna, got it?
Sunny Savita: So please, create, one, Google Form and post it inside the committee chat.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, guys, I hope, you have this entire notes and all everything, so let me do one thing, guys. Let me open my Blackboard, and let's discuss whatever topic are the remaining one, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great. So, we're talking about the fine-tuning, so first of all, let me tell you the entire flow, that what all things we have discussed so far.
Sunny Savita: And, what all things are the pending one?
Sunny Savita: So that, you will get a better idea, better visibility of all the topics.
Sunny Savita: And then we're gonna start with a new topic.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sunny Savita: So guys, if we're talking about the fine-tuning, so we already discussed the detailed introduction of the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So you can check out the previous class. I started the fine-tuning chapter from the introduction itself.
Sunny Savita: Let me write each and every point over the blackboard itself, okay?
Sunny Savita: So the first topic was what? So the first topic was the… Introduction of the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: And I hope so.
Sunny Savita: inside the introduction chapter, each and every theoretical concept related to the fine-tuning are clear, right? Then, guys, the next, thing which we have discussed, okay? Intro of the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Then the next topic, which we have discussed, we have talked about what? We have talked about the hugging phase.
Sunny Savita: So, we discuss about what? We discuss about the hugging phase, what is a hugging phase, right? How, basically, you can write a code using the hugging phase, or the different, different concept of the hugging phase. Actually, we have deep dive in one of the sessions, and we understood all the necessary concepts related to this hugging phase. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Then, after the hugging phase, guys, I came up to this non-instruction fine-tuning. How you can Perform the non-instruction.
Sunny Savita: fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, I have taken one raw data, one PDF data, that was belonging to one of the domains, and using that data, we have performed what? We have performed the non-instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Then, after the non-instruction fine-tuning, we understood how we can perform the instruction fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay instruction, fine-tuning. So, I, N, S, T, Are you… C, T-I-U-N.
Sunny Savita: So we understood about the instruction fine-tuning, and this concept was also clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, in one of the sessions, right, I think in the last class, last week, actually, so, in 13 June, right? So, at that particular day, we have discussed about the preference tuning.
Sunny Savita: Right? How, basically, you can perform the preference tuning, and we discuss, basically, preference tuning with the DPU method over there, right? Still, I need to discuss a couple of theoretical points a little to that, so I will do that. Then, these are all the topics we have completed using what? Using the hugging Face
Sunny Savita: framework Okay?
Sunny Savita: Then after that, guys, I have discussed one more framework, related to this fine-tuning, and the framework name was what? The framework name was the unslot.
Sunny Savita: In the previous class, I discussed about the onslaught, and I discussed how you can perform the non-instruction fine-tuning, instruction fine-tuning, and the preference tuning using this particular framework, onslaught framework.
Sunny Savita: And we have found that this framework is a quite useful one, and we can utilize this framework even in the industry also, because it is supporting
Sunny Savita: a faster training, rather, this native hugging phase. So, if we are using this onslaught framework, then we have some advantage on top of the native hugging phase, okay?
Sunny Savita: So definitely, we can utilize this unslot framework for what? For the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, couple of more concepts are the pending one, so let's discuss those concepts one by one. So today, guys, what I will do, I will discuss about the
Sunny Savita: Multi-model fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is the meaning of the multimodality, guys? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: multimodal fine-tuning. In the multimodal fine-tuning, I will specifically discuss how you can fine-tune your NELLM with image dataset.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, I will discuss how you can fine-tune your model with the image dataset. Got it? Then, guys, after that, we'll come to the embedding fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: what we can, what we can discuss? We can discuss about what? We can discuss about the embedding fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Embedding fine-tuning. Now, guys, this embedding fine-tuning, I will discuss inside the rack chapter.
Sunny Savita: You know, inside the rack, guys, this embedding plays a very important role.
Sunny Savita: Inside the rag chapter, inside the rag, this embedding plays a very important role.
Sunny Savita: Right? So I will discuss, this embedding fine-tuning, and I will show you how you can integrate this fine-tuned model inside your rack pipeline.
Sunny Savita: in your custom rack pipeline, how you can integrate this embedding fine-tuned model, the custom fine-tuned model. Okay, so this topic, guys, this particular topic, embedding fine-tuning, I will discuss where, I will discuss inside the rack chapter.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, after that, guys, one more topic is the pending one. One more topic is the remaining one, so let me write that name as well. So, what I will discuss, guys, I will discuss how you can fine-tune the OpenAI-based model.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: OpenAI-based model. So, OpenAI is also providing you the way of fine-tune their model, but guys, this OpenAI model, actually, it is not an open-source model. So, we'll have to fine-tune this OpenAI-based model via their API only.
Sunny Savita: So I will show you how you can perform this API-based tuning.
Sunny Savita: how you can perform this API-based tuning, and I will show you how you can fine-tune the GPT model.
Sunny Savita: Got it, guys? This is clear or not. So, first is the multimodel fine-tuning, then OpenAI-based fine-tuning. And after that, guys, couple of more concept, are the remaining ones. So, we'll discuss about the RLHF concept.
Sunny Savita: Okay, how you can perform the training using the PPO trainer, and what is a RLHF, actually.
Sunny Savita: And we'll discuss about what? We'll discuss about a DP also, okay? And then, I promised I will explain about one more concept, sorry, I will, discuss the theory about the LoRa as well, okay? Because so far, we understood this LoRa in terms of practical. We directly have used this LoRa
Sunny Savita: Okay, so we directly have used this LoRa, and we have used it programmatically so far. But yeah, some theoretical points are still there related to the LoRa, and then this topic is going to be complete. So guys, these many things are the pending ones, so what I will do today, basically, I will discuss this multimodal fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: If time will permit, then I will discuss this, OpenAI-based fine-tuning, okay? In today's class, we'll cover this board topic, and after that, guys, what I will do after that, I'll come to this one, RLHF, DPU, and LoRa.
Sunny Savita: And the next chapter is going to be a rack chapter. So inside the rack chapter, guys, I will discuss this, embedding fine-tuning. It is a very small code.
Sunny Savita: It is a very small code, okay? So I will quickly show you how you can perform the embedding fine-tuning on your custom dataset, on your custom dataset, and how you can integrate that fine-tuned model, that fine-tuned embedded model, inside your RAC pipeline. Making sense to all of you? Tell me yes or no. Is it getting clear?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, is it getting killer?
Sunny Savita: If it is clear, you can give me a quick thumbs up, so that we can proceed.
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Dspy, no. But if you want, Ruchi, I can include the topic later on, okay?
Sunny Savita: So the idea and the agenda is clear. If the idea and the agenda is clear, we can start with the multi-model fine-tuning. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Okay. So, guys, first of all, what you have to do, please, open the new note. Okay, I'm sharing the code, you can open the same code, okay, inside your local or inside a collab, anywhere you can open, and I will execute that, I will run it, I will, explain you that, and simultaneously, you can understand.
Sunny Savita: Got it? Great. So, what I'm doing, first of all, let me create a new notebook.
Sunny Savita: I'm going to be… create a new notebook, new Google Collab notebook.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And, there, basically, I will write a code from scratch.
Sunny Savita: Inside this notebook only.
Sunny Savita: How frequently we do the fine-tuning? It depends, actually. It depends, thing. So, it completely depends on the use case.
Sunny Savita: And it completely depends on the, management as well, right? Whether they're supporting to the fine-tuned model or not, whether they are approving the budget related to the fine-tuning or not, okay? So, depends on many, circumstances. It's, like, completely subjective thing.
Sunny Savita: Here, guys, I'm going to connect with my GPU, because GPU is required for the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: And, let me write the name as well.
Sunny Savita: So, here, what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to write a… file name.
Sunny Savita: So… renaming the file. Give me a moment.
Sunny Savita: vision.
Sunny Savita: model.
Sunny Savita: Fine.
Sunny Savita: tuning, okay? Vision model fine-tuning. So, I'm sharing this particular link so that you can
Sunny Savita: follow me all together. Don't execute the code right now, just follow to me, just observe the process. Later on, you can do it, okay? After the session, guys, you can revise it.
Sunny Savita: I'm sharing the link inside the, chat itself.
Sunny Savita: Now, once you got it, just, give me a quick thumbs up.
Sunny Savita: Hmm…
Sunny Savita: What is the date, guys? Date is a 20 June.
Sunny Savita: 2026… and multi-model fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: I'm providing you the dataset also. Give me a moment, guys, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, we are using that, we are using that custom data.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, okay? I am providing you the data as well.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so this is updated. Let me push it.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, I post the data and even the file as well, okay, the code base as well, over the GitHub. So, directly, you can take it from there.
Sunny Savita: I kept it inside the folder.
Sunny Savita: And I'm maintaining this repository date-wise, so you will not face any difficulty while you are looking into the folder, okay?
Sunny Savita: while you are looking into the material. So, this is the folder. Please take it inside a local system, or you can open this file anywhere. Anywhere means collab, as well as inside a local. You don't need to execute it right now, you just need to observe the code.
Sunny Savita: So, if it is done, then let me know, so that I can proceed, okay?
Sunny Savita: I am, sharing this link inside the chat.
Sunny Savita: Do let me know.
Sunny Savita: Yes, correct, Mohan. Your understanding is correct over here.
Sunny Savita: So guys, did you get it?
Sunny Savita: I just want quick confirmation from everyone's end. If, you got it, then let me know, okay?
Sunny Savita: So in backend, guys, Yash is with me. If you have any sort of a question, you can write in the chat. If we are missing anything during the live session, okay, so you can discuss in the doubt class.
Sunny Savita: Great, guys. So, I think we're gonna start. So, first of all, we'll have to prepare the data, right? So, we are going to perform the multimodal fine-tuning, and for that, we'll have to perform the data.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, if we're talking about the multimodal fine-tuning, so here we are going to train the model, okay, over the image dataset. So, so far, we have trained our model over the text dataset. Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Right? So, so far, guys, what we have done, we have trained our model over the image, sorry, text data side. So, whatever model we have trained so far in our previous classes, so there I, just took the text data.
Sunny Savita: Now, instead of the text, guys, what we are doing, we are going to take our images, and I will show you how you can fine-tune your model. Not any model, guys, how we can fine-tune the vision model over the image dataset, okay? So you will get some sort of idea that, yes, this kind of fine-tuning is also possible.
Sunny Savita: So, first, let me check whether everything is, working fine or not.
Sunny Savita: Print OK, yes, this is correct.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, what I will do, I will create a new folder.
Sunny Savita: And my folder name is going to be what? My folder name is going to be an image data set. And inside this particular folder, guys, I will keep my image data, okay? So, let me create one folder.
Sunny Savita: So just do the right click and create a folder, okay? So here, the folder name is going to be iPhone underscore images.
Sunny Savita: So, inside this particular folder, guys, what I will do, I will keep my custom data. So, I can take the data… I can take the data directly from the hugging Face.
Sunny Savita: We have several, ready-made dataset over the hugging phase, or I can fine-tune over my custom dataset also. Custom dataset means what? Custom dataset means my own data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So I will show you both. I will show you how you can directly take data from the Hugging Face, any ready-made data, or how you can fine-tune on any custom data set.
Sunny Savita: Clear, guys, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Your screen is blank. I don't think so. My screen is blank.
Sunny Savita: Is it, visible, right? Ratnakar is saying my screen is blank.
Sunny Savita: No, right? Okay, it's visible. So, guys, here, what I'm doing, I'm taking my custom dataset, as well as I will show you how you can fine-tune your model over the ready-made dataset, which you can directly take from the Hugging Face as well, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, first, let me show you the data, the data, basically, which I shared with all of you. So, this is the data, guys. iPhone images. Okay, so I just have 5 images, you can keep as many as images.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope this data is visible to everyone.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, if this data is visible. Now, tell me what kind of data it is.
Sunny Savita: what kind of data it is? It is the iPhone images, okay? So, we have 3 iPhones here, then we have this, different image of the iPhone.
Sunny Savita: Then, see, this is the different color, okay, and then this is a different iPhone image. So, this dataset, basically, it is available in the PNG format. You can keep in the JPG, PNG, web file, any sort of a file is possible.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and basically, I'm just keeping 5 images to showcase you the fine-tuning. But in the real time, the data could be anything, okay? Means, the quantity could be anything inside… in the real time.
Sunny Savita: There could be 5 images, 10 images, 50 images, 500 images, okay? So that depends. Now, over here, what I'm doing, I'm just taking 5 images so that I can show you the process. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So this, data I'm going to upload over the Hugging Face… sorry, over the collab. So, let me upload all this file. Simply upload, and I'm selecting all the files.
Sunny Savita: And then, upload it, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, the files is going to upload over here, and I will utilize this particular data to fine-tune my model. Till here, everything is fine, everything is clear. Tell me, guys, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Is it fine? Is it clear to everyone? Very, very simple. So we'll go very slow. Not very slow, guys. We'll maintain a sufficient speed so that everyone can understand the process.
Sunny Savita: Now, first of all, guys, what we have to do? So, here, we'll have… we have to, basically prepare the dataset, okay? So, dataset preparation is a very important part over here. Now, guys, here, what I'm doing… so, first, I'm going to be… install some libraries. I think you are already familiar with this library.
Sunny Savita: So let me install it over here. So I'm writing… I'm writing over the collab, pip install.
Sunny Savita: data sets, okay? And the second library is going to be Pillow. Now, tell me, guys, why we are using this dataset library.
Sunny Savita: the dataset library, basically, we are using from where? From the hugging phase, okay? This is the Hugging Face library. So, using this dataset library, we can load the dataset, we can, basically create the dataset, okay, we can process the dataset.
Sunny Savita: So, this library basically is being provided by the Hugging Face. Now, the second library is the Pillow Library. So, this Pillow Library, we use to open, process, resize, and manipulate the images inside the Python.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so why we use this pillow library? We use this pillow library just to deal with the images. Got it? So let me install all this library, both library. I'm installing this both library.
Sunny Savita: Let it install.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I will do, see, the flow library and the dataset library, both are there, okay? Now, I will, basically create one variable. So, here I'm going to create one variable, image underscore DIR. Now, here, what I will do, so where my images are available, I'll copy. What I'll do, guys, I will copy
Sunny Savita: Okay? I'll copy the path of this particular folder.
Sunny Savita: And I'll mention it over here, right? So here, my images are available. Now, what I will do, guys, I will iterate on top of this particular data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So I will iterate on top of this particular data. So, how I can iterate on top of this particular data? So, for that, I'm going to be create a list comprehension.
Sunny Savita: Right? So I will write 4.
Sunny Savita: And I will write F, F basically is nothing, it's my file. Then I'll write in, okay, and then I'll list all the images from the image directory. So, os.listdir.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Using this particular method, I'm going to be list. Now, here I will be passing this particular directory, this image variable. So, once I'll iterate on top of this particular directory, okay, I will be getting all my images. Getting my point? So, it is giving me syntax error as of now. Let me sort it out. Now, what I'll do, guys, so over here.
Sunny Savita: over here, guys, what I will be doing, so here, basically, I'm going to be join the path, okay? So let me write this os.
Sunny Savita: path.join, okay? And here, what I'll be doing, I'll be giving this image directory.
Sunny Savita: Let me give this image directory.
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, I will write my file name, app. Now, here I am putting one condition also, whenever I'm iterating on top of this particular data. So, I'm putting one condition also. I am putting with respect to the… with respect to what, guys? I am putting with respect to what? With respect to the extension, okay?
Sunny Savita: So let me give you the complete code, so that you can look into that. So this is the complete code, guys, what we are doing over here. So we are going to be iterate on top of the file, whatever is there inside the… whatever is there where, whatever is there inside, the directory, okay? Now, I'm creating an absolute path for that, and I'm checking the extension of the file.
Sunny Savita: And then I'm passing into the sorted method, so that all the files will be in a sorted order, right? Now, before that, guys, what I have to do, I have to import the OS also. So I'm writing over here, import OS.
Sunny Savita: Now, see, once I will do it, now inside this particular variable, inside the image files, I will be getting all the image files, see? So, I have content iPhone image, image 1, content iPhone image, image 2, 3, 4, and 5. So, how many files we have? I have 5 files, which I kept here inside the list.
Sunny Savita: So, is it clear, guys? Tell me yes or no. Is it getting clear to all of you? So, we are able to get all the files, we are able to go… sorry, we are able to get all the files inside this particular list.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, once you will check out, so you can see, this is the file which we are, keeping inside the list, okay? This is just a path of it. Now, I hope, this, entire thing is clear, okay? I already shared the file and all everything, MK.
Sunny Savita: You can check out, right? You can check out with my GitHub. Now, what I'm doing, guys, so first of all, let me clarify some points over the Blackboard, and then I'll proceed.
Sunny Savita: Now, whenever we're talking about the, vision fine-tuning, guys, so let's say we have an LLM,
Sunny Savita: This is my LLM.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, to this LLM, what I can do, I can provide the text.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: What I can do, guys, I can provide what? I can provide the text.
Sunny Savita: And based on this text, what I can do, guys, tell me, based on this text, basically, I can…
Sunny Savita: Based on this particular text, I can generate the text.
Sunny Savita: Okay? But this is also possible, instead of the text, we can provide the images.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We can provide the images. And based on these images also, we can generate the text. Tell me yes or no, this scenario is also possible.
Sunny Savita: With respect to this LLM,
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, here, what we are trying to do, so we are trying to train… we are trying to train our LLM on top of our own custom images.
Sunny Savita: We are going to train our LLM, okay, we are going to train our LLM on our own custom images, okay? So it is a domain-specific use case. So, let's say if you are working in any, basically, company, right? And there you have a use case that, on top of this particular image, you have to train your own LLM.
Sunny Savita: Right? So that it can understand these images in a better way, and then it can generate the text out of it.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? Yes or no? So, here, what we are doing, guys, on top of this particular data, on top of the images, basically, we are going to train our LLM, right? Now, guys, whenever we are preparing a data for the training, so how to prepare a data for the training? Now, let me show you that part.
Sunny Savita: Now, first of all, tell me, till here everything is fine. We haven't done anything so far, we just have uploaded the images, and we are able to get the image path over here.
Sunny Savita: If it is clear, you can let me know so that I can proceed.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, basically, this LLM, actually, it can perform the OCR-related task also, right? It is…
Sunny Savita: prune into that. So, if you will look into any GPT model, GPT-40, 4.1, GPT-5, 5.12, so we can provide our images, we can provide the images to this particular model, and we can generate the output.
Sunny Savita: So whenever I was talking about the different, different model, right? So, we were accessing the different, different model, if you remember.
Sunny Savita: In our previous session, I showed you how to access the different model via API and all. So there we have passed the image also.
Sunny Savita: There, we have passed the images also.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no. So we have passed the images, and based on that particular images, we were getting the output. If you remember the previous session, I already shown you this particular process, okay?
Sunny Savita: We have, basically accessed a different, different model from the OpenAI, from the Gemini, and even I've shown you using the open source model also, from the Hugging Face. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'm doing, guys, so for preparing the data, what I'll do… so for preparing the data, basically, I will write the caption… captions also, along with the images, right? So, this is also required.
Sunny Savita: This is also required. Along with every images, I will have to append the captions. So, I prepared some captions. Let me take these captions, and I'll keep it over here. Now, just look over here, okay? So, whenever you are preparing the data for the fine-tuning, image-related data, so along with the images, guys, you will have to
Sunny Savita: keep the captions also. Now, if you will open the image, guys, you will understand this caption, actually, it is matching with the image description. So, let's read out the first caption. A white iPhone shown from back and front on a white background, okay? So, you can open what? You can open the image. See, this is the image, guys.
Sunny Savita: Now, here you can see the caption with respect to this image. So, actually, it is not a white phone, it is an orange phone. So, let me keep the orange over here.
Sunny Savita: This is the correct description of the image. Now, if you will look into the second one now, see? If you will look into the second image, dark blue of iPhone shown from the back, so you can look into the second image. So, it is a dark or not. According to that, basically, we can tweak the caption.
Sunny Savita: So, dark iPhone is there, orange is there, white is there. So, just look into the caption, okay? So this caption is written according to that. A dark blue iPhone shown from the back with a side. An orange iPhone from back, a 3 iPhone. Okay, so this is going to be a… this is going to be for the second image. Now, let me check what is there in the second. So, here I can…
Sunny Savita: This particular caption is for what? For the second image, okay?
Sunny Savita: So let me keep it over here. Now I can check what? I can check the third one also.
Sunny Savita: So, let me open the…
Sunny Savita: Third image as well. So what is there inside the third image? This is the orange iPhone, so let me check. An orange iPhone shown from the back and front, so this is going to be my third image, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, let me check out the fourth image. So here, guys, this is the fourth image. So, this is a blue, blue one, so a dark blue iPhone shown from the back in the side view.
Sunny Savita: Now, let me check out the last one. So, here, guys, it's going to be what? It's going to be a last one. So, this is a white one, okay? So, I can write over here a white, WHITE, white iPhone, shown from the back in the transparent background.
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, guys, this caption part is also clear. So, along with every image, we have to append the appropriate caption also, description also, and this will go along with the training.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no, is it clear to all of you? You can match out this particular caption with the images.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: An orange iPhone runs on the back and front, the white background. Let me check out what is there inside the third image.
Sunny Savita: You can tweak this caption and all, guys, okay? No worries. So, here, basically, this is the orange one, no? This is the orange.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is the… this is not a front, okay, this is just a back one, not a front one, so let me remove this. Here on the iPhone from… shown from the back.
Sunny Savita: So let me remove the front from here, okay?
Sunny Savita: I hope now it is clear. A orange iPhone shone from the back on the white background.
Sunny Savita: Is it clear to all of you? If these captions are clear, please do let me know so that I can proceed. And I can tell you how the data looks like, the AND data actually looks like.
Sunny Savita: And don't worry, guys, what I'll show you, I will, basically even show you, some ready-made dataset also. So, from the hugging Face, I can show you the different, different ready-made dataset also.
Sunny Savita: So tell me, guys, is this caption and the data is clear?
Sunny Savita: If till here everything is fine, tell me, so that I can proceed, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yes, you will have to set up the caption. This is, like, an important step.
Sunny Savita: Caption is the mandatory one, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great. So, I hope, guys, the data and the captions are clear. Now, what I'll do, guys, so here, basically, I will add one more thing. Now, this is going to be what? This is going to be my instruction.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, yeah. So this is going to be what? This is going to be my instruction. I'll keep both over here. Instruction is what? Describe the iPhone product image in the one sentence, okay? So using this particular thing, like images, the caption, and the instruction, I'm going to prepare what? I'm going to prepare my final data set.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, here, what I'm doing…
Sunny Savita: Yes, order of the Corps caption is going to be, like, this is required, no?
Sunny Savita: This is required, no, order of the caption, because we have to write according to the image only, no? Bharat? It's, like, common sense, correct?
Sunny Savita: Because we have to map it.
Sunny Savita: We have to map it basically with what? We have to map with every image. So what I'm doing, guys, so here I'm going to, run this caption in the instruction also. I'm going to create what? I'm going to create one list over here. Okay, so let me create what? Let me create one list. Rows.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside this particular list, I'll be keeping my entire data. I will format what? I will be formatting my entire data. So, the formatting is very easy for that. Basically, what I'll do, I will iterate on the files, on the data, as well as over the caption, okay? So, let me write over here for…
Sunny Savita: Image underscore path.
Sunny Savita: Right? Then, guys, I will be having the caption. Then I'm writing over here GIF.
Sunny Savita: So I'm going to iterate on both variables. The first is going to be image file, and second is going to be what? Second is going to be caption. Got it, guys?
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll be formatting my data, and where I'm going to be appended? I'm going to be append inside this particular rows, okay? So let me do it, guys. Let me, write over here rows.append, and inside this particular, basically, row… inside this particular list, I'm going to be append my data in the form of dictionary. Got it, guys?
Sunny Savita: So, here, I'm going to be prepare my data. Now, what I'll do, guys, I will be passing… I will be having 3 variables over here. The first variable is going to be what? The first variable is going to be…
Sunny Savita: image. Okay, so let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: The first variable is going to be image. Now here, basically, I'll be providing the image path. The second variable is going to be what? The second variable is going to be a caption, okay?
Sunny Savita: The second variable is going to be what? This text, okay? And there, I'm providing the caption. Now, here I'm writing the third variable also. The third variable is going to be the messages, okay? So here, basically, I'm going to be format my complete message. Let me show you how it looks like.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the complete code.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let me remove it, and let me keep it away. Now, see, guys, what we are doing?
Sunny Savita: So here we are going to… here, basically, we have an image file, we have our captions. Now I'm going to be keep the images, okay? Sorry, I'm going to be keep the image path over here, inside, I'm assigning this image path to this particular key. I'm assigning the caption to this particular key, okay? And this is my complete message.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside the message, what we have? We have a role, okay?
Sunny Savita: User, user is asking something. So this… here, basically, what we have, we have two things. One is a user role.
Sunny Savita: And the second is a… sorry, one is a role, that is a user one. And second role, actually, it's an assistant one. So inside the user, you can see what we are passing. We are passing the text, and we are passing the images, okay? Now, inside the text, what we have, we have an instruction. This is my instruction, guys, describe the iPhone product in the one sentence.
Sunny Savita: And here, basically, I have an image path.
Sunny Savita: Now, assistant… Assistant basically is what? Assistant is my AI assistant. So, what it will be reply? It will be reply to this particular text, okay? This particular text. So, in this particular format, we are going to prepare our data. Now, let me execute it so that you will get a clear-cut understanding. Now, if I will print these rows now.
Sunny Savita: If I will print this particular variable, so you will see this is my final data set, which I will be using for the fine-tuning. Now, just look into the first row. With that first row, basically, you will get the clear-cut understanding. So, let me print the first row over here. Just focus over here, guys, okay?
Sunny Savita: Just focus into the first row.
Sunny Savita: Here, basically, you will get the clearer understanding. So, we have an image one. This is my image 1. Now, this is the text, which is associated with that.
Sunny Savita: Now, here I'm going to be write the complete format, or complete message. So, here is my role. Role is my user. So, user, basically is writing this text. Describe the iPhone product image in one sentence. Now, here is what, guys? Here is my image.
Sunny Savita: Now, what this AI is going to be reply? So, AI is going to be reply, this particular capture. So, onto this particular data, onto this particular input and output, we are going to fine-tune our model.
Sunny Savita: So what kind of fine-tuning it is? Can anyone tell me? It is a supervised fine-tuning. Why it is a supervised fine-tuning? Because we have an input and output both inside the data.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, is it getting clear to all of you how to prepare the data for the fine-tuning, the image data?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no. It's very easy, very easy to understand. Once you will, basically go through with the, this entire process now, once you will look into this, this data format from your end, everything is going to be clear. If it is not clear, let me know. Again, I will, repeat this part, okay? Again, I will go through with this part.
Sunny Savita: Okay. So tell me, guys, still here, everything is, fine, everything is clear?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this message format might be changed, okay? This is our, like, standard format which we can utilize, which we can utilize for the instruction fine-tuning. Got it?
Sunny Savita: This particular format, this format. So when I'm preparing a data, so inside the data, I will be keeping three columns. One is going to be image, second is going to be text, and third is going to be message.
Sunny Savita: Got it? Now, once I will show you the fine-tuning, at that time you will understand which, basically column is being used over there.
Sunny Savita: But as of now, just, understand over here that we have formatted our data in this particular way, in this particular manner. Got it?
Sunny Savita: F, D, G, at G, you will get it, okay? So, just wait for some more time. Once I will fine-tune the model, at that time you will get it, which particular column is being passed. But this is the standard way of… this is the standard way for preparing a data. Got it?
Sunny Savita: If it is clear, you can let me know, I can proceed. Or I can quickly explain you this part, what we are doing.
Sunny Savita: So, here…
Sunny Savita: Basically, what we have, let me show you. We have our image files. This is my image file, actually. From this particular folder we are getting. This is our custom folder. Now, this is the caption, okay, which is belonging to this each and every image.
Sunny Savita: this each and every image, okay? Then this is the instruction, right? Now, using this particular, basically data, I have to format my final data.
Sunny Savita: We have images, caption in the instruction. So where I'm going to be format this data, where I'm going to be, format the final data, I'm keeping inside the list. So this will be available in the form of list of dictionary. If you don't know about the list of dictionary, I can write over here.
Sunny Savita: list of dictionary, okay? So, this is the list of dictionary. So, inside this only, inside this particular list only, I'm going to be create
Sunny Savita: Different, different dictionary object, okay? Now, just, see, just look into this particular code, it is very easy to understand. If you have a basic understanding of the Python, you can understand this part.
Sunny Savita: So let me show you this for loop, how this for loop is working. If I can copy this for loop, and I can paste it over here, and I can simply print this image path over here. So I'm just printing the image path and the caption, okay? So you will see how it is working.
Sunny Savita: So, see, we are getting the image path, and alongside, we are getting the caption. So on both things, on both variable, we can iterate all together if we are passing it inside the jib, okay? So we have this JIP method, inside this, we are passing this image file, we are passing this caption.
Sunny Savita: And then we have image path and caption, so we are getting this both variable. We are getting a value of this both variable. Got it? Now, guys, what we are doing, so we are appending this detail inside the list.
Sunny Savita: For that, what we can do, we can utilize this row.append method, okay? Append method. If we are appending anything in… we are, calling this append method, using… over the list, actually. So, we are appending the detail, we are adding the detail inside the list, okay? So what we are adding, guys, we are adding the dictionary object with respect to each and every image. So row.append, now here is what? Here is my image path.
Sunny Savita: Then, this is my text, which is my caption, actually. So, image, path, and caption, I think it is very easy to understand, correct?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, I am formatting one more step ahead. So, what I have did, I have created this message key. Okay, this is my one more column, message column. Now, inside that, I have created two roles. The first is going to be user role, means what user is asking, and what AI will be replying. Okay, so I have created this two roles. First is a user role, and second is an assistant role.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside the user role, basically, I have created the content.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, inside the UI user role also, we have a content, and inside the assistant role also, we have a content.
Sunny Savita: I hope this is clear. So, inside the user role, you can see we have an instruction. Now, user is saying something. User is saying, please describe this particular image. So, I have an instruction, and this is my path.
Sunny Savita: This is the one thing, which user is asking. Now, what AI is replying? So, AI is replying this one. So, AI is replying the captions. Getting my point? So, this type is nothing, it is just a data type, actually, okay? So, type is text. So, this is my text.
Sunny Savita: Type is image, here is my image, okay? It is just a data type. Now, here you can see type is text, and then here is a text. Got it, guys? So, likewise, we are going to be format our data. Now, once I will execute it, so here I will be getting this particular data inside the list. Now, if I will run this row.0, so see, this is the first row.
Sunny Savita: I hope this thing is clear. Clear, guys, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Can we proceed further? Now, can I show you how, basically, keep this type of data over the hugging phase?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So guys, this is what, this is my data. Now, what I'll do, so this particular data, I can even keep it over the hugging phase. Yes or no? Can we keep this, formatted data, this particular data over the hugging phase? I think, this thing I already discussed in my previous classes, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So, this thing I already discussed in my previous classes, that you can keep any kind of data over the hugging phase, okay? So, this is also very easy. Now, we have two ways to keep this data over the hugging phase. How many ways we have? We have two ways. The first, basically, we can keep this image as a string path.
Sunny Savita: Okay, we can keep the path only over the hugging phase. The second one, basically, we can keep the images directly.
Sunny Savita: We can keep what? We can keep the images directly over the hugging Face. So, can we keep the images directly also over the hugging Face? Yes, this is also possible. So, let me show you how, basically, the final data looks like over the hugging Face.
Sunny Savita: I already have the data over the hugging Face, I pushed it before the session itself, so let me show you my repository, okay?
Sunny Savita: And then I'll show you how you can push your own data. So, just a second, guys, let me search it.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I'm not able to get my repository, so directly I can.
Sunny Savita: Open the hugging face, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, see guys, this is my data which I pushed over the Hugging Face. So, we can push in two ways.
Sunny Savita: We can push in how many ways, we can push in the two ways. So, if you will look into this data, so can you see over here, we have three columns. First is our images, second is the text, and the third is our messages. So, inside the images column, what we have? Can anyone tell me over here?
Sunny Savita: So, inside the images column, what we have, can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: So, if you will look into the image column, so we have an actual picture.
Sunny Savita: Okay, we have what? We have an actual picture. Now, if you will look into this data, so which I already post, right? This one. So, inside this one, what we have inside the image column.
Sunny Savita: So, inside the image column, we have what? We have a path, okay? So, in both ways, we can push the data over the hugging phase. But over here, guys, see, if we are, using this way, inside this way, what we are doing, we are keeping the images directly.
Sunny Savita: We are keeping what? We are keeping the images directly, okay? So whenever we are going to be load the data, we'll have to convert into the images. This image object will have to convert into the actual images, okay? In the second wave, basically, we'll be getting the path.
Sunny Savita: Right? So we'll be getting the path. So this particular image, whatever path we have mentioned, right? So this particular image basically will have to be downloaded separately.
Sunny Savita: Let's say I'm giving this data to someone to fine-tune their model. So what I will do, I will provide this data, okay, I will provide this particular data to someone, and this image folder, I will be providing separately.
Sunny Savita: this image folder, I will be providing separately in that case. Making sense? So this both thing is clear. We can directly post the images, and we can post the image path as a string, and then, whenever we are going to be using this particular data for the fine-tuning, so we'll have to provide the image folder separately, from somewhere. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Okay, now let me do one thing, guys. Now, here you can see… so what I'm doing… so let me show you how, basically, you can push the data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, data pushing is very easy. So, if I directly wanted to push the data, means these are rows, so I will simply call this dataset dataset, and I'll call one method using this dataset. The method name is going to be what? From underscore list, okay? And then I'll pass my rows over here.
Sunny Savita: That's it, guys. So, here, what is… what I have, I have this data set, okay? Now, what I'll do, guys, I will simply run it, guys, and I will be able to convert this particular dataset, where I will be able to convert this particular dataset into the Hugging Face-compatible format.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you, tell me yes or no. It is very simple. I think in the previous classes, I already discussed about it. So for that, what I will have to do, for that, basically, I will have to import this dataset from the Hugging Face, okay?
Sunny Savita: So if you wanted to simply… if you simply wanted to post the images in the form of this particular format, this one.
Sunny Savita: If you simply wanted to post that data into this particular format, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, if you want to push the images, actually, so how you will do that? So let me run it, guys, and here you will see. So, this data basically have been converted into the Hugging Face format, this one.
Sunny Savita: Now, see, this particular data is converted into the Hugging Face format. Now, if I wanted to push this data, so how I will push this data? Very easy. It's very, very easy to push this data over the Hugging Face, okay? What I'll do, guys, I will simply…
Sunny Savita: write my repo ID, okay? I'll simply, create one repo. So, let me create one repo, okay? So here is my repo ID. Let's say this time I'm going to be create the, different repo. So, iPhone 5 VLM, live session.
Sunny Savita: Right? So this is my repo. Now, what I'm… so this is without the images, so let me create a repo with the correct name. So this is without the images, okay? Now, this is my repo ID. Now, what I'll do, guys, I will simply write this DS dataset, okay, and then I'll call this push.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And, I will call this particular method push to hub, and I'll pass my repo ID over here. That's it, guys.
Sunny Savita: This is the simplest way of pushing the data over the hugging phase. Now, guys, if I will execute this particular command, okay, so I will be able to push my data in this particular way, in this particular format. Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear to all of you? If this part is clear, let me know. Now, guys, if I wanted to push in the form of images, so how I can push in the form of images? Let me…
Sunny Savita: Basically, show you that way also. So, for that, I will have to create one specific data type. So, I'll be calling the same method, this one only. So, let me…
Sunny Savita: call the same method. And here, what I'll do, I will write my
Sunny Savita: data set. Sorry, I will write what? I will write my data type, okay? So I'll be creating a data type, and that particular data type, how I'm going to be creating the data type? I'm going to be creating the data type using what? Using one specific method that's going to be a feature, okay? So let me import that, and let me keep it over here, so that you will get a clear-cut understanding.
Sunny Savita: So, here is what? Here is my feature, guys. Okay? Let me remove this dataset from here.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, what I'll do, guys, I'll be taking this feature.
Sunny Savita: And here, here, guys, what I will be doing, I'll be providing something. So what I need to provide over here, I have to provide some data set, okay? Data type, actually. So, this is the data type, which I am going to be provide.
Sunny Savita: Let me keep it over here. This one. I just need to create this particular object, and this object, I'll be passing via. This feature object, this particular feature object, I'll be passing over here. Okay?
Sunny Savita: this feature object, I am passing over here.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, once I will call this one, okay, so this data set will be created, but this will, along with the image object, this along with the image object, okay? Now, if I'm going to be post this data, so how it will look like over the hugging phase, so it will be looking like this. Getting my point? So let me do one thing, let me create a different variable, ts with images, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, let me execute this. This is fine, this is perfect, this is DS with images. Now, you can see, this is what, this is my DS with images. Now, I will be create my repo inside a different repo, actually. I will be keeping my data. So, here is my BLM with the image, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, this is for the live session. Now, once I'll call the push.
Sunny Savita: Once I will call this DSPushToHug, so I will be able to push my data, this particular data, over the hugging phase.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, is it getting clear to all of you? Is it very… this thing is very easy, and I think everyone can understand.
Sunny Savita: But if you want a kind of quick revision, I can provide you. So this data set preparation is clear, how to prepare the dataset and how to keep it in the… how to keep this data over the hugging phase. And here, I'm showing you the both way. Okay, this one, and even this one.
Sunny Savita: Right? In the both way, basically, I have shown you. Now, tell me, guys, how many people are able to understand it.
Sunny Savita: Is it an interesting one? Are you learning something new over here? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: how do you maintain the images and description text in order? We will have to do that, no? Ramesh, okay? So manually, actually, we'll have to look into that. If we have 100 images, 200 images, so that part will take some time.
Sunny Savita: to look into the images, to create a caption, to arrange that. We'll have to provide some unique ID to the images. Okay, according to that particular ID, according to that particular name, we'll have to write the caption. Something like that. Some manual effort is required over there. Got it, Ramesh? Is it clear?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Good. Now, guys, before explaining you this code, before explaining you this entire, sorry, before giving you this, revision, right? The revision of this entire process, let me show you some inbuilt data set. So, would you like to see some inbuilt data set? Can I show you some inbuilt data set, guys? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Can I show you some inbuilt data set? So, just a second, I have kept some names. So, just a second.
Sunny Savita: I can show you that, okay? So, here is some… here is some inbuilt data set. I'm keeping inside a text column, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? I can keep one more dataset, so that you will get a more clear understanding about the data. Okay? So, guys, you can investigate, you can investigate what? You can investigate this particular data set.
Sunny Savita: Once you will investigate this inbuilt data set, you will get more clarity, okay? So, let me show you this each and every data set. So, let's look into this particular data, this OCR data, okay? Or let's start from the first one. So, let's, let's look into this particular data.
Sunny Savita: So, what is the name of this one? Just a second, this one, I think.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so what is the name of it? What is the name of this particular data? Lava Instruct 150K.
Sunny Savita: Now, if you will look into this particular dataset, so just, just tell me, just tell me one thing, guys. So, here, they are giving you the actual images, or they are just giving you the image name inside this particular data set.
Sunny Savita: Tell me what they are giving you inside this dataset. So, they are just giving you the name.
Sunny Savita: They are just giving you the name. So, from where, guys, from where you will download the images?
Sunny Savita: So I return the caption over here, just read it out. The actual images, the Coco Train 2107, so from where it is coming.
Sunny Savita: So, it is coming, basically, from the Lava GitHub repository, okay? So, whenever you are going to be utilized this particular dataset, so image you will have to download separately from somewhere else. This dataset, actually, it has been prepared. This Lava dataset, actually, it has been prepared on top of the COCO dataset.
Sunny Savita: COCO, actually, it is a very famous dataset. So, it is an image dataset, actually, which is created by the Microsoft, okay? So, if you want… if you wanted to utilize this particular dataset, this Laba dataset, so image, you will have to download separately. So, is it part… this part is clear?
Sunny Savita: If this part is clear, please let me know, I can proceed. Okay? Now, here you can see some different other datasets, so let me show you the latex OCR dataset. So, if you will look into this particular data set, now tell me, guys, in which format the image is available over here.
Sunny Savita: in which format the… sorry, in which way the image is available inside this dataset. So here we have an actual image object.
Sunny Savita: So what we have, guys, we have an actual image object inside this particular dataset. Is it getting clear?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, is it getting clear to all of you, right? Let me show you some other dataset also. So, if I'm showing you this Flickr 30K dataset, so just open this dataset also. Now, tell me, guys, inside this particular data, do we have the actual images, or do we just have the path of the images?
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: So, this is also having the actual images. Got it? What is the name of this dataset?
Sunny Savita: If you will look into the name, so the name is the Flickr 30K, okay? I can show you some other dataset also. Let's say this is the chart QA. So, just open this dataset and see.
Sunny Savita: So what we have inside this image is… inside this data?
Sunny Savita: Inside this data, we have the actual images.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Yeah, field flicker dataset is also having a field file name. You can keep that as well, more.
Sunny Savita: So, that is also fine. So, in both ways, actually, we can create our dataset. So, if you will look into my dataset, so this is my dataset na, this one.
Sunny Savita: So tell me, guys, what we have inside my dataset. Inside my dataset, I have both. Images also.
Sunny Savita: And if you will look into this particular repository, so you will find out what, you will find out what, you will find out the…
Sunny Savita: Text also, okay? Image and the text.
Sunny Savita: In both ways, actually, I created this data. Even I can keep this image path also while I'm formatting that image one, right? That is fine, okay? Even I can keep this path as well.
Sunny Savita: So that is up to me, how many columns I'm going to be right inside my data set, okay? So if this data part is clear, please let me know, so that I can proceed with the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Just give me a quick thumbs up, fast.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: So, how the session is going on? Are you liking the session, guys?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: One person is saying, no, that is some FSGD… FS… FDG, what is your doubt? Please let me know, or else discuss in the doubt session the retail, okay? Whatever discussion you have.
Sunny Savita: or regarding your doubt and all, you can keep it in one notepad, and then you can discuss that, okay? I don't have any issue. You can discuss until whatever depth you wanted to discuss. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Great. So, guys, see, if you're talking about the fine-tuning, so, tax model and the vision model, both are the different one.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So…
Sunny Savita: Whatever model we have currently, whatever model we are using in the current time, so that model could be used for the text as well as for the vision.
Sunny Savita: Right? Earlier, whatever model we have used for the fine-tuning purpose, that was only for the text one. But now, whatever model I am going to be showing you, so that particular model can be used for the text, as well as that model can be used for the vision as well. So let me, give you those names as well.
Sunny Savita: So what I'm doing, guys, I'm just keeping some names of the model, so here you can see.
Sunny Savita: These are the names, okay? So this particular model you can utilize, for the vision and even for the text perspective.
Sunny Savita: So, like, we have GPT-5. So, GPT-5 we can use for the images and for the text as well.
Sunny Savita: We have Gemini 2.5 Flash. We can utilize it for the text, and for the images also. Okay, in the same way.
Sunny Savita: So, we have, this model from the Quinn, okay, you can see this is from the Quinn 2, this is from the Quinn 2.5 Omni, okay, this one from the Llama.
Sunny Savita: It's for the GMA, Mistril, and Lava. So, whatever model I have written over here, so this particular model, actually, it's an open source model. This is available over the Hugging Face. Getting my point? So we can pick up any sort of a model from here, and then I can perform the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: I've just given you, like, a different, different name, so that you could be aware about the different models. But yeah, we can pick out any sort of a model from here, and we can perform the fine-tuning. I've shown you the model from the different, different repository, from the different, different companies. Now, we're talking about the Quan guys, so this model belonged to which company? Can you tell me?
Sunny Savita: This particular model, this quiet model, actually, this belonged to
Sunny Savita: Alibaba, okay? Llama model, it belonged to which company?
Sunny Savita: This Llama model, it belonged to…
Sunny Savita: Meta, right? Now here, GMA model, it belonged to which company? Google. Mistral, Mistral.ai. Lava, again, it belonged to Meta.
Sunny Savita: So it's belong to the different, different companies, guys, right? So I hope till here everything is fine, everything is clear. Are you, clear with this entire thing, whatever I have explained so far?
Sunny Savita: Let me give you the quick revision, and after that, we can take a break, okay? So, here, guys, what we are doing, we have installed the libraries, the necessary library. This is my images from this particular directory, I'm going to import the images.
Sunny Savita: Here, basically, I've created the image list. All the images, basically, I kept inside the list, okay, using this particular code. This is my caption, this is my instruction, so I'm combining this entire data, and I'm formatting it.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, this is the entire code for the formatting. My data is ready, so here you can see the data set. Now, I've shown you the two-way for preparing this data, means, for preparing this data and pushing it over the hugging phase, right?
Sunny Savita: So that anytime we can utilize that. So we have two ways. The first, basically, is the simplest way, where the images will be available in the form of a path, a string path.
Sunny Savita: And the image folder will have to keep separately, okay? Anywhere we can keep it, if I'm providing to anyone, right, I can keep it over my hugging… sorry, over my GitHub, over my Google Drive.
Sunny Savita: I just need to provide, that particular directory, okay, to my user, if I'm working into the company. So these images I can keep anywhere. Got it? Till here, everything is fine.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Then we have a next one, basically. If I wanted to keep the actual images, so for that, we'll have to create this particular object, okay? It is again being provided by the hugging Face only.
Sunny Savita: So I will be using this feature class, there I am keeping the image, okay, there's my key, there's my second key, there's my next key.
Sunny Savita: So the type of the image is going to be images, the type of the text is going to be string, and the type of the message is also going to be a string, okay? So while I'm converting my data into the Hugging Face-compatible format, I'll be passing my data, as well as I will be passing this data type, this feature.
Sunny Savita: And then I'll run it, guys, so here, basically, I'll be getting the actual images, right? And this is the simple code, just to push my data over the hugging phase.
Sunny Savita: So, I already pushed it, so I'm not going to push it again, but yeah, you can push it by yourself. And, this is all the model, guys. This is our vision model. It is, capable for the text, as well as for the vision as well. So, we are going to be fine-tuned, any of the model from here.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, you can pick any model, and then you can fine-tune. Now, guys, after this particular… after the break, guys, I will show you the actual fine-tuning, how we are going to do that. Now, tell me using which framework we are going to perform this fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can keep it over the GitHub, or else you can, in the real time, if you're working for any enterprise, any company, so they will give you some space there you can keep your data. Over the Databricks you can keep, over the AWS you can keep, right? There are the several places where you can keep your data.
Sunny Savita: So now we are going to perform the fine-tuning using the unslot. So, after the break, guys, I'll do that.
Sunny Savita: I hope you're liking the session.
Sunny Savita: And once I'll do the fine-tuning, everything is going to be clear. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, let me put the timer. Guys, how many minutes? 20 or 18?
Sunny Savita: Please let me know.
Sunny Savita: 20? Okay, someone is saying 5 minute. 5 minute… dinner is not possible. F, D, G, A, G, 5… 5 minute dinner possible, right? Dinner is not possible. So let's give some, sufficient amount of time.
Sunny Savita: Got it? So, see, majority people is asking for the 20 minute. I'm not saying, people are saying, right? Even I cannot… see, even the break is not required to me, I can completely teach you, okay, for the straightforward 3R. But again, I'm giving for the dinner… dinner one, right?
Sunny Savita: So, let me… run the timer. So, thank you guys. After the break, I'll see you again. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay guys, so let's start with the session. I hope everyone is there. Can you please confirm in the chat?
Sunny Savita: So let's, begin with the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So guys, have you gone through with this entire solution? And I hope so, this, entire code is clear, right?
Sunny Savita: It's very easy. I just, shown you the data preparation part, and, I hope so.
Sunny Savita: This thing is clear. Now, let's do one thing. Let's, start with the fine tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, before starting the fine-tuning, let me install some important libraries, okay? That is… Important one.
Sunny Savita: So, what I'm doing, guys, I'm going to be restart my session.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, okay.
Sunny Savita: Or else, let me disconnect and delete the runtime. And again, I will be connecting.
Sunny Savita: So, freshly, I can install those libraries inside my environment.
Sunny Savita: So, reconnecting is here, and let me show you all the libraries. See, this is all the library. The first one is a transformer, I think you know about it.
Sunny Savita: We discuss it multiple times. It is, from where? It is from the hugging Face again.
Sunny Savita: Then the second, basically, it's from, it is again a TRL one, so this also, this, this library is also available over the Hugging, inside the Hugging Face ecosystem. So, yeah, I'm directly, I'm directly downloading it. Okay, and I'm directly downloading this specific version, so we'll not face any such, issues and the error and all.
Sunny Savita: Now, the third one is going to be Unsloth, Unslaught Jew, Bits and Bytes, Accelerator, Path, and the Triton, right? I think you're already aware about this library, but let me give you the quick recap of this as well.
Sunny Savita: So, Unslot, basically, Unsloth and Unslot juice for interacting with the unslot. Bits and bytes for the quantization. Acceleration for the multi-GPU setup. As of now, it is not required. You can remove this one.
Sunny Savita: Paved for the LoRa configuration. Triton, basically, it is, again, for the unslot, okay? So, it is a specific, kernel, on top of the CUDA, a specific programming, right?
Sunny Savita: So, this, we can import in the form of Triton. Now, the next one is going to be sentence piece, Protobf. Okay, again, it is a supporting package, which I'm installing. Dataset, Hugging Face Hub, so it is just a compatible one.
Sunny Savita: According to these other packages, okay? This data set, this version, the Hugging Face, this version, right?
Sunny Savita: Hftransfer, again, it is for transferring anything, between the Hugging Face Hub and the local one. Using this particular module, we can do it. So, this is all the library which I'm going to be installed inside my Colab environment. So, I'm installing it, let it be installed.
Sunny Savita: And then, guys, what I will do, I'm going to be import. So let me write the import statement, all the required import statement. So the first one is unstraw, second is an OS, third is a torch, data class, I think you already know the data class, dict.
Sunny Savita: to convert any data into the dict object, load dataset from the dataset, okay, transform a text streamer, so this I'll show you where we are using. Fast vision model for loading the vision model from the unslot, okay, Unslot trainer, so this is for…
Sunny Savita: basically, un-training, right? So, unslot vision data collector. I think you already know about the collater, we have used it inside our hugging Face also, but yeah, again, I'm importing it over here. Then TRL, from the TRL, we are using this SFT configuration and SFT trainer.
Sunny Savita: Because this is a, supervised fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, this many packages and this many import statement is required, so let it complete, guys. After that, I'll show you the fine theory.
Sunny Savita: This entire code is available in the GitHub, as well as I shared this link, this collab link, so both you can refer. Got it?
Sunny Savita: This installation will take some time if you are doing it first time.
Sunny Savita: Text streamer is nothing, it will just stream the output, okay? So, model is start printing output when it is going to be generated. So, as model is generating output, at that time only it is starting printing over the console. So, that is a use of the text streamer. That's it. Got it, Salendar? Is it clear?
Sunny Savita: For streaming the data over the console.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I think it is installed. See, guys, it will take some time. It might take up to 5 minutes if you are doing it first time.
Sunny Savita: So that's why I freshly restarted this kernel, so that I can install it.
Sunny Savita: Yes, correct. We're Shekhar, your understanding is correct.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it still is installing, let it complete.
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys, so it has installed all the required packages. Here you can see, it has installed.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'm doing, so I'm going to be import all the required packages. The first one is onslaught, okay? So, this should be on top. If you are going to be imported anywhere else inside this cell, in that case, it will give you the error.
Sunny Savita: Got it, guys?
Sunny Savita: Now here, OS…
Sunny Savita: I think you know why we are using OS, just to interact with our system, right? Server, to create any file, to upload any file, okay? So, to list any file from the folder, we can utilize this OS. So many functions, this OS library is having.
Sunny Savita: The Torch library, it is a fundamental of all the other library, everything have been coded inside the torch. Data class is just a configuration-related class, okay? Dict, again, to convert any data into the dict.
Sunny Savita: Load data set from the Hugging Face, text streamer to stream the output, fast vision model for importing the vision model, unslot vision data collector, okay, to pass the data in the form of batches, we are using this data collector. The SFT return and SFT configuration for the supervised fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, let it import. This import will also take some time.
Sunny Savita: No, non-instruction fine-tuning is not required for the wizard model. Got it, Gangadhar?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, after installing and importing all the required packages, what I'll do…
Sunny Savita: So after that, guys, I will, write my code. So this code, actually, I have written in a different way, so you can utilize it anywhere.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so I return the entire code, entire function functionality inside the single class itself. You know the classes in the object in the Python? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: What is a use case of the image model fine-tuning? Use case means you can train your model on your own custom dataset. Let's say if you are working in any pharma company, right? If you are working in any e-commerce company, right? If you are working in any finance company, where you are providing some image-related data to the model.
Sunny Savita: Where it is going to be extracted data from the images, or it is interpreting those images.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So in that case, you can train your own, find your own vision model, your own, model with the image dataset. Got it, Pradeep? Is it clear? Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now guys, here, I return this code in such a way that, you can utilize, it anywhere, okay? I return one single class, let me show you. If you're familiar with the class as an object concept of the Python, let me, revise over here. So, let's say, if I'm going to create a class in Python, let's say my class name is what?
Sunny Savita: or demo class.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now here, what I'll do, I'll create a function. So let's say here, basically, my function is an init.
Sunny Savita: And here, what I'm doing, I'm passing cell. Now, guys, here I'm, writing any printed statement, so this will be the…
Sunny Savita: POST method.
Sunny Savita: Will be… this will be the first method, which… So it'll be called.
Sunny Savita: As soon as… as soon as… I will.
Sunny Savita: Create.
Sunny Savita: object.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the first method. Let me write in a correct way.
Sunny Savita: This is our first method.
Sunny Savita: Which will be called as soon as I will create an object of this class. Then I can create one more method, so let's say this is my second method, so I can write anything, dummy method, okay? So, here, basically, I can,
Sunny Savita: Again, provide cell, and whenever I'm going to be called this method, at that time, it will be called, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, let me write print. Print is what? All? Okay. Something like that. So, this is what, guys, this is my class. There, we will be having the instructor, as well as what I have. I have one method. So, as many as method I can create.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let's say if I'm going to be create an object of this demo class, so here is my object of the demo class. So see what I'm getting? If I'm going to be create an object of the demo class.
Sunny Savita: Am I getting this message?
Sunny Savita: So whenever I have to initialize anything, so that code, that part, I will keep it inside this method.
Sunny Savita: If I wanted to initialize anything, okay, then that part I will keep it inside the init method. And then rest of the method, as many as method I can create. So, let's say if I wanted to call this method, so what I'll do, I'll keep this object in a variable.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, see, this is being, called, the init method is being called. Now, I'll take this object.
Sunny Savita: And I will call what? And I will call this dummy method. So once I'll call this dummy method.
Sunny Savita: Now, see, you will be getting this, message, okay?
Sunny Savita: So you are getting these matches. So I hope, guys, the classes and the object concept is clear.
Sunny Savita: It is very easy in a Python. If you know the basics of Python, easily you can understand that. So I created one class, and inside that only I have combined the entire code. So let me give you that particular class.
Sunny Savita: So, I can explain you the entire class and all everything. So, I hope, this is visible. So, this code is available in the, basically GitHub also. You can directly take from there.
Sunny Savita: So, if this class is visible, please let me know in the chat so that we can proceed.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, if it is visible.
Sunny Savita: So, can we start step by step, one by one? We can understand. What is the class name?
Sunny Savita: The class name is Vision FineTuner.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so this is what… this is my initializer. So what all variable I am going to initialize over here? So, we are going to be initialized the model name, we are going to be initializing the dataset info, means which dataset I'm using, model.
Sunny Savita: Tokenizer, train data set, eval data set, and trainer.
Sunny Savita: So, these many variables, I am initializing were inside the init method. Clear or not? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: We… this is the custom class, Susan. I return it for the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This is a custom class, basically. I return it for what? For the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So, here you can see, if you wanted to see all the method name, what all method name I have, so let me remove this entire coding
Sunny Savita: As of now, from here, just a second.
Sunny Savita: And then, you will be able to see the what-all method we have over here, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, I'm removing all the low-level coding.
Sunny Savita: From this class.
Sunny Savita: So, whenever we are working in the real-time project, we always create a classes only.
Sunny Savita: all the codes and all everything we write in the form of classes. And this is… we are going to be used from the next module. A lot we are going to use from the next module. Whatever project we are going to be created, we are going to be created in a modular fashion.
Sunny Savita: Got it? So this is my method, this is my function, so I'm removing the low-level code.
Sunny Savita: So that you will understand the method name, okay? You will get all the method name.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: So, this is fine. This is also clear.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, here you can see we have the inferencing also. So, inferencing also we can do.
Sunny Savita: And I'll show you how, basically, you can perform the inferencing.
Sunny Savita: So this is one sweet and simple class, and inside this class, basically, I can combine all the code.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, how many methods we have inside this class.
Sunny Savita: Are you able to see all the methods?
Sunny Savita: So, first method is an init1. So, this method, by default, will be here. So, if I have to initialize anything, I'll keep it inside this method.
Sunny Savita: Then the second method is a load model. Okay, so if I have to load the model, what I… I will write all the coding, all the functionality inside this method.
Sunny Savita: Then the second method is a prepare dataset. So I will format my dataset, I'll prepare my dataset from here, okay? From this particular class.
Sunny Savita: Then, build a trainer. So, whatever configuration I have with respect to the training and all, I'll be keeping over here, okay? Then, training. So, inside this particular class, I will perform my training, okay? I will write the code related to the training.
Sunny Savita: Then after the training, guys, what will happen? I'm going to save the model, okay? Then after that, guys, I will be doing the inferencing. So here you can see, inside the one single method, I'm calling all the methods. So if I'm going to be execute this run, my entire pipeline is going to be executed. Or else, step-by-step also, I can call all the method.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, is this class clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So this is the best way of writing a code in a real time. We always write a code in the form of classes and all.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sunny Savita: Is it clear?
Sunny Savita: So, you can see what we have inside the classes, guys. So, see, whenever we are going to perform the fine-tuning, so first we'll load the model. So, we are loading our model, we are preparing the data set.
Sunny Savita: We are configuring our trainer, we are training the model, we are saving the model, and we are inferencing the model, we are performing the prediction on top of the model, and this is my one single method with that I can do everything. Load model, prepare data, build trainer, train, save, and quick inferencing. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Great. So, this part is clear, and I hope so everyone is able to understand. So, what I'm doing is I'm just going to be copy this entire previous code, and I'm keeping it over here.
Sunny Savita: So that we can look into the low-level code. And guys, this code, basically, I created in such a way that you can write any model name, any dataset name, and you can perform the fine-tuning out of that, right? So let me show you the other part of the code as well. So, here is my class. What is my class name?
Sunny Savita: this vision fine-tuner. I hope so, this class is clear. Now, along with that, I created one more class, that is my configuration. So, entire configuration, basically, I'm going to keep at the single place, okay?
Sunny Savita: So let me keep this, particular configuration inside the…
Sunny Savita: one cell. So, I have one more class, vision, fine-tuning Configuration. So, inside the configuration, or inside this particular class, what I have, I have the different, different, variable, okay?
Sunny Savita: So this data class, this enum class, okay, this class is basically we use to write configurations. Making sense? If you are familiar with the basics of Python, you can easily understand this part.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, till here everything is fine, everything is clear.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay. So, let me show you the data class, how does it work? So, if I have to create a data class, see, here I've given you the example of the normal class.
Sunny Savita: But let's say if I wanted to create a data class, how I can do that? So, for creating a data class, I will simply use this decorator.
Sunny Savita: this data class decorator. Okay, so this is called decorator in Python.
Sunny Savita: So, from where I'm getting this decorator, guys, so I'm getting this particular decorator from here, from this particular import statement.
Sunny Savita: As you can see, so from here, I'm getting this decorator.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's say if I'm writing a class, let's say my class name is what? My class name is Sunny. Okay? You can create any sort of a class. So, let's say my class name is what? Class name is Sunny. Now, I can create the variable, as many as variables. So, let's say, what is the name of the Sunny?
Sunny Savita: So, here, basically, I can write the name of the Sunny. Sunny's name is Sunny.
Sunny Savita: Savita, okay? Now, what Sunny is doing, so, let's say profession, I can create one more, variable over here.
Sunny Savita: Profession. So, Sunny is a… mentor, okay? Now I can write one more,
Sunny Savita: basically key, so let's say I can write over here a subject. So, in which, subject Sunny's teaching? Let's say Sunny is teaching in the AI, okay? Now, here I can write Sunny's mobile number. So, let's say here is my mobile number, I can write over here.
Sunny Savita: 877020.
Sunny Savita: 3-2, okay? And the last two points, 2 digits, you can guess.
Sunny Savita: And, if we are talking about the email ID, so here is my… Email ID, okay?
Sunny Savita: Don't worry, guys, I'll give you my mobile number, but at the end of the session, at the end of the batch, okay, I will provide you my mobile number as well. You can directly message to me with respect to any sort of a doubt.
Sunny Savita: So, here is my mobile ID, let's say… sorry, email ID is what? Demo.
Sunny Savita: At the rate, Gmail.
Sunny Savita: Got it, guys? So this is what… this is my configuration class. I written the configuration for the sunny over here.
Sunny Savita: So, it is saying syntax error, okay, this dot is not applicable over here. So, see, this is my configuration. Now, if I have to access the information of the Sunny, how I can access the information of the Sunny?
Sunny Savita: So, I can access the information of Sunny like this. First, I'll create an object of the Sunny.
Sunny Savita: So let me create the object of the sunny.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and once I run it, see guys, I am able to create an object of the sunny. Now, here I will write the…
Sunny Savita: Sunny's object, or I will write the variable name, Sunny's information.
Sunny Savita: Got it, guys? Let's say if I have to access Sunny's name, so I'll simply put the dot over here, sunny's info.name. I'll be getting Sunny's name, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, let's say if I'm, calling over here, what? If I'm calling over here, Sunny's Profession.
Sunny Savita: So, I'll be getting what? I'll be getting, basically, profession. So, is it clear to all of you? Is this data class clear? So, we just use this data class to write the configurations, okay? Now, if dynamically I wanted to change anything.
Sunny Savita: If dynamically I wanted to change anything over here, let's say if I wanted to change the profession of the sunny. So what I'll do, guys, I will simply create an object. So this is going to be my object, too. Now, here I will pass the profession.
Sunny Savita: And this time, instead of the mentor, I'll be passing the developer. So in a dynamic way, actually, I can change the variable name also. Sorry, variable value also. So here, if I'm writing Sunny Professional Developer, then what I can do, see, this is my second object.
Sunny Savita: So, let me take a correct, variable over here.
Sunny Savita: This is the correct variable, and then I can assign the value of it, see?
Sunny Savita: Then you got an expected keyword argument, profession.
Sunny Savita: Profession is there, no? What is the issue with that?
Sunny Savita: I think it should be correct.
Sunny Savita: What is I show sunny not only in it?
Sunny Savita: Okay, let me again execute it.
Sunny Savita: Then I think… Dynamically, also, we can change. Just a second, guys.
Sunny Savita: Why it's not working… I think there is some mistake.
Sunny Savita: need to have a constructor write? No, init method is not required for that. Init method is not required.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys, just a second. Let me check it out, why it is not working. Am I doing any mistake? Am I, like, I forgot something?
Sunny Savita: I'm just checking, okay? Wait.
Sunny Savita: Wait, guys, okay, wait, I'm checking.
Sunny Savita: init function is not required over here, as much as I know.
Sunny Savita: It is not required.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine, guys. So, let's do one thing, let's, mention some, see.
Sunny Savita: Let's mention some, data type also. Okay, so I'm mentioning some data type as well. So, see, this is the data type. Name is a STR, profession is a STR, subject is ISDR, mobile number is ISDR, email IDs are STR. Okay, now let me check it out one more time. So, Sunny is working, Sunny info is fine.
Sunny Savita: Sunny Profession is mentor. Now, if I'm writing this…
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so I need to mention the data type, actually. Because of that, it was giving me the issue.
Sunny Savita: So here, if I'm passing the data type, no, the appropriate data type of that particular variable, it will be working. Now, if I'm checking the profession of sunny, so what is going to be a profession of Sunny now?
Sunny Savita: So the profession of Sun is going to be a developer.
Sunny Savita: Got it, guys? So, did you understand this data class? Is it clear to all of you? It's just the basics of the Python. If you understand the basics of the Python, sorry, if you know the basics of the Python, then this thing is nothing for you, okay? So, how's our understanding of today's session?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, internally, maybe it is using that, but explicitly, we no need to define that, Sunil.
Sunny Savita: So… Are you able to understand everything, whatever we are learning in today's session?
Sunny Savita: There'll be yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Vision class will also be Kilir Abhishek. Once again, we'll go through with it, or I provided you the code. You can quickly look into that, okay? I'll explain you the mentioned code over there. Whatever code I have written now, I can mention that, right?
Sunny Savita: So, I hope, guys, you are able to understand everything, right? Whatever I'm explaining. With this class, value, change, or data frame to which it is assigned change.
Sunny Savita: which data frame, because I didn't get your question.
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys. So, here is the configuration. Are you able to understand this entire configuration now? So, we are passing the model key, this is my model, this is my dataset, I can provide any sort of a dataset over here. Now, this is, basically configuration related to the data.
Sunny Savita: So we are going to be use any data from the hugging phase, then I am just taking subset of that. Evaluation ratio means, this much of data we are using for the evaluation, internal evaluation. We are not, writing any external evaluation as of now.
Sunny Savita: Then over here, guys, you can see the configuration of the LoRa. This is the training-related configuration, what is the logging, how many logging is stabbed, what is the number of epoch, some configuration related to the output length, weight decay, and all.
Sunny Savita: then output directory, where my output is going to be saved, and where I'm going to be saved my output for the BLM model, okay? This model, basically.
Sunny Savita: So, this is my data class. So, I hope, guys, this data class is also clear. If you wanted to understand the meaning of each and every parameter, even I capped that as well for all of you. Let me keep it over here, so that you can go through with it, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, whatever parameter I've defined inside the configuration, here you can see the complete description of those parameters. So, I'm giving you one minute of pause, guys, just read it out, all the parameter.
Sunny Savita: Do it fast.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, sure, Pradeep, I can do it.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, is it clear to all of you? All this parameter is clear? Oh, sorry, all this parameters are clear. Just go through with each and every parameter and read out the description of it, okay?
Sunny Savita: you will understand why it is being used. Some parameters are the mathematically prune, okay, so if you are aware about those formula and all the mathematical formula of the LoRa and the optimizer and all, then you can understand in a better way. But guys, again, those things is not required.
Sunny Savita: We don't need to, like, deep dive into those formulas and all as of now. We just need to understand, you know, programmatically. That's it. Okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this low, rank parameter we can change. So this LoRa part, just leave it as of now. I will explain you this once I will come to the LoRa theoretical explanation. You will automatically get it. You will automatically understand it, what is a rank. It is a very easy one. This rank parameter is a very easiest parameter over here, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, you are asking with respect to this, object, right? You can check out now, see what you can do.
Sunny Savita: This is Sunny Info2, let's suppose. Just a second. So, here is my data class, this is my Sunny Info. Sunny In… Sunny Info is coming, Sunny Savita, Sunny Info profession is this one. Now, I'm creating a second object, okay? So, this one. Now, I'm going to be checked with Sunny Info 2. Now, see, for Sunny Info2, I'm getting developer, and if I'm checking…
Sunny Savita: for Sunny, info only. Now, here you can see we are getting mentor. So, we can create as many as object. We can overwrite the previous object, or we can create a new object as well. In the previous object, the information would be same.
Sunny Savita: Okay, because this is already initialized in the memory. Until we are not overwriting it, it will be mentor only. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Because that is clear? Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: So I hope, guys, this entire thing is clear, so let's do one thing.
Sunny Savita: Now let's, run the training part. So, here you can see the complete configuration.
Sunny Savita: And, this is a complete description of it. Again, I will come to this one, if you wanted to understand, or let me again, explain you that. See, model, which model we are training?
Sunny Savita: Data set, which dataset we are using. Subset of the row, from the data, we are not going to be using the complete data. If I'm using any inbuilt data set, we are using 150 rows. This is the evaluation ratio, so model internally evaluate the, model internally will be evaluated, okay, with some data set.
Sunny Savita: then seed means nothing, it is just for the reproducibility. So if again and again, if I am going to be execute the cell, so the dataset should not give me the random sample. So for that, we are using this seed. Now, this is LoRa configuration, okay? R, rank parameter, LoRa alpha and LoRa dropout, just to, basically.
Sunny Savita: handle some overfitting, okay? Then this is the training one. So, how many best size, gradient accumulation, again, related to the optimizer.
Sunny Savita: Number of training report 2, learning rate for the smooth training, logging step, at how many steps we are going to be logged the information. Weight decay, again, delete the optimizer, max length of the output, okay? This is my output directory. That's it.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, I hope this is clear. Now, we have… I have to define two more things. So, if you will look into this class, so there we have two variables. The first is going to be model registry, second is going to be data registry.
Sunny Savita: So, let me take this 2 thing also, just a second.
Sunny Savita: it is very easy to understand. See, this is a model registry, actually. You can utilize any sort of a model.
Sunny Savita: I can mention it over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay, multiple models I capped, so from here, you can pick any sort of a model. You just need to provide the key name, that's it.
Sunny Savita: The second is going to be the data registry. So, you can select any sort of a data for the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: So I kept 3 datasets over here. One is Alytics OCR, Flickr 30K, and our own custom data.
Sunny Savita: Got it. So if you wanted to fine-tune your model just for the learning purpose or practice purpose on top of this inbuilt data set.
Sunny Savita: You just need to utilize this key.
Sunny Savita: Automatically, the dataset will be readded from there, from the hugging phase. If you wanted to use our own custom dataset, so here is the key for that, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this is mine dataset, mine custom. You can also upload your own dataset. So, this is the data registry.
Sunny Savita: So I created two, dictionaries. One is a model registry, second is a data registry. So let me run it. So here is a data registry.
Sunny Savita: Now, this is my class, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, what I will do, tell me, first, what I will do.
Sunny Savita: Cannot even tell me what I'll do at the first place. Again, I will come to this part, guys. I'll explain you.
Sunny Savita: Means we'll get a quick revision of it.
Sunny Savita: So, first we'll define the configuration, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, let me define the configuration.
Sunny Savita: what is the class name for the configuration? Vision FTConfiguration.
Sunny Savita: So, vision, FT configuration.
Sunny Savita: Now, if I have to pass anything from here, I can pass that. So, this is what, this is my configuration.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I'll do, this configuration, basically, I will pass it to the init method. So, how I will pass? So, I will, create an object of the…
Sunny Savita: class. So, vision.
Sunny Savita: fine-tuner class.
Sunny Savita: Now, here I will be passing this configuration.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, guys, what I will do, I will be creating my object. So here is my object, trainer object.
Sunny Savita: Alright?
Sunny Savita: Now, trainer object is created. Now, first, guys, I will load the dataset. So, here is my dataset. Now, can anyone tell me which dataset I'm using as of now?
Sunny Savita: load underscore model. So, as of now, I am using my custom dataset.
Sunny Savita: So, let it load, guys. So, see, the dataset is being loaded.
Sunny Savita: sorry, model is loaded over here. So I'm loading a model, and after model, guys, what I will do, I will prepare the dataset.
Sunny Savita: So, trainer.
Sunny Savita: dot… prepare data set, okay?
Sunny Savita: So once I'll call it, my dataset will be prepared. So let it complete, guys, after the tile.
Sunny Savita: Again, come to the code part, okay?
Sunny Savita: Model is loading. It might take some time, so let it load.
Sunny Savita: This is a bare minimum parameter, pushpind, which you can define while you are performing training. Got it, pushpin?
Sunny Savita: So, model is loaded, data set is also prepared. Now, over here, you can see the training sample and the evaluation sample, okay? So, this is divided. Now, after that, guys, what I will do, I will define my trainer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I will build my trainer. So, trainer… dot.
Sunny Savita: BuildTrainer. Okay, I will call this particular method.
Sunny Savita: So, build underscore trainer. Now, see, guys, my trainer is going to be built.
Sunny Savita: My trainer is building. Now, what I'll do, guys, I will train the models. So, train trainer.train.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So once I'll run it, this trainer.train, see, the training has started.
Sunny Savita: You can see, guys, training has started. Now it is saying, no such file directory, means I don't have this particular directory. I think when I restarted this system, or restarted this server, this directory has lost. So again, I can create it, no worries.
Sunny Savita: So, I'm going to create a directory, iPhone underscore images.
Sunny Savita: I can keep all the images over there. So, just a second, let me upload.
Sunny Savita: So the trading will be started now, if I will call it.
Sunny Savita: Don't worry, guys, again, I will come to the code part, and will give you the quick revision of that, okay? Everything you will be able to understand.
Sunny Savita: So, trainer.train, and see, the training has started.
Sunny Savita: Now, after the training, guys, what I will be doing, I will save the model.
Sunny Savita: trainer.sale.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so once I'll call this trainer.save, my model is going to be saved here? My model is going to be saved inside the directory.
Sunny Savita: So, see, guys, the training will be started over here.
Sunny Savita: Now, I think many of you, you don't know, you're not able to get the low-level coding, whatever I have written inside this particular class. So now I will explain you that, what I have written inside this particular class, and then we'll wrap up the session.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so quickly, I can explain you this entire class. It is very easy to understand.
Sunny Savita: If you have joined my previous sessions. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, let me check with the training whether it's started or not. See? The training will be started over here.
Sunny Savita: Let me share this notebook also, so that you can go through with this entire code.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, are you able to understand this entire process?
Sunny Savita: Just let me know in the chat if you're able to get it then. Yes?
Sunny Savita: Fucking
Sunny Savita: Training, training, training, yeah, training will, the logs will come over here, because we have mentioned the step size is equal to 10.
Sunny Savita: So, at every step, it is not going to be represent the, sorry, at every step, it is not going to be, write the loss value, it will write after 10 steps. So, let it… it will come in sometime.
Sunny Savita: It is total epoch, actually. It is not a step.
Sunny Savita: Okay, here you are saying total steps to… no, total steps, I think, how many steps we have mentioned? We'll have to check with the configuration, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Toto steps…
Sunny Savita: per trial, training base size 2, gradient accumulation, number of repairs, logging step. Logging step is 10, actually.
Sunny Savita: At every 10-10 step, we are going to be log.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so… I think that step is something else. That is not a logging step.
Sunny Savita: the gosh.
Sunny Savita: It takes, some time, over the image dataset, so…
Sunny Savita: First time, if you're running it, it might be a little slower.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now see, now you will find out some logs. So, it has completed one epoch.
Sunny Savita: And it will show the result, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so destroying training completed, it has… it is not showing the…
Sunny Savita: I think some issue is there. I will have to check with the configuration guys, maybe something is wrong. Because of that, the training…
Sunny Savita: Step didn't show over here. Let me check the configuration, don't worry, I'll, come to that, okay? So guys, here you can see the training is completed. Is it visible to all of you? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, gradient accumulation is nothing. See, it is a concept of the optimizer coup.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so instead of updating model weight, after every small batch, we are going to be collect the gradient from multiple small batches, from the multiple batches, and we are updating in once.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So that is the gradient accumulations.
Sunny Savita: we are passing our data in the batches, and we are going to be collect the gradient from the multiple batches, so that we are updating, okay? Accumulation means updating from the multiple batches.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, here you can see the training is completed, and our model is going to be saved here inside this particular directory.
Sunny Savita: So, tell me, guys, what is this? What is this model?
Sunny Savita: adapter model.savedensor.
Sunny Savita: So what this model is? Can anyone tell me? Is it a full-fledged model, or it is a lower adapter?
Sunny Savita: What is this?
Sunny Savita: So it is a full-fledged model, or it is a Loa adapter. So it's a LoRa adapter, basically, which we have trained over the… over the image dataset. And I hope so, everyone is able to understand that what we are doing over here, right? So tell me, guys, is it clear till here everything is fine, everything is clear?
Sunny Savita: Did you understand the entire process?
Sunny Savita: So let's take a quick, deep dive of the code, okay? So let's deep dive into the code so that your fundamental understanding will be more clear.
Sunny Savita: Great, guys. So, can we start, with this, training class again? Sorry, this configuration one.
Sunny Savita: Let's start from here, okay? So I'm giving you this, notebook, just look into this one.
Sunny Savita: And, then I'll give you the quick revision of it.
Sunny Savita: This is a multi-model fine-tuning, means over the image dataset, how we are going to be fine-tune our model. MKG, are you getting what I'm trying to say here? See, earlier, basically, we were just fine-tuning over the text dataset, but let's say in the real-time dataset, in the enterprise data set, we have images also.
Sunny Savita: On top of these images, we have to fine-tune our model. So, how we can do that? So, you can take this particular approach for that.
Sunny Savita: Understood?
Sunny Savita: Is it clear? Okay. Great. So, guys, let's take quick one minute of break, quick water break. After that, guys, I will come to this, revision, okay? One more time, we can look into this entire class, so that your understanding will be very much concrete over here.
Sunny Savita: You can clean that data, Sushant. If you have a blurred data.
Sunny Savita: You can clean the data, okay?
Sunny Savita: I think biller data will not work, maybe it will cause an issue.
Sunny Savita: But yeah, the cleaning, basically is required.
Sunny Savita: Guys, fine. Can we again, start? Can we again, start with a quick revision of this entire code?
Sunny Savita: Great. So, here you can see…
Sunny Savita: what is my class? What is my class name? So, if you will look into the class name, this is my vision fine-tuning configuration.
Sunny Savita: It is a data class, so I hope it is clear. So what we are doing, guys, we are going to create a object of this vision fine-tuned class.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so I'll write my class name.
Sunny Savita: And my object will be created.
Sunny Savita: Now, using this particular object, this configuration object, can I access any variable of this particular data class?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Can I access any sort of a variable?
Sunny Savita: I hope everyone is clear till here, right? So what I'm doing, if you will check.
Sunny Savita: If you will check, with this particular code, let me show you.
Sunny Savita: So, let me scroll down.
Sunny Savita: And just to see over here.
Sunny Savita: So what we are doing, guys, we are going to create an object of this class.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: We are going to create an object of this class, and then this object we are passing.
Sunny Savita: Inside the init method.
Sunny Savita: Init method.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, can I show you the init method now? Just a second, let me show you the init method, what we have inside the init method.
Sunny Savita: So this is my init method, guys, this one.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside the init method, we are passing the configuration.
Sunny Savita: This is the type of the configuration.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, here I'm keeping this configuration inside this variable. Is it clear?
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So inside this variable, we are keeping the configuration, so we can access it inside the different other method also.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now here what I'm doing. From the configuration, I'm taking a model. From the configuration, I'm taking the data set.
Sunny Savita: So, see, I'm getting a model, and I'm getting a dataset. Very simple code, nothing else. And why I'm creating a object variable using this configuration?
Sunny Savita: So that I can access it inside the other different method also.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Oh, till here, everything is fine.
Sunny Savita: Great. So, guys, here what I have done. So, I have, created two, basically, dictionary also. It is very easy, because, you see, if you wanted to perform the experiment with a different, different.
Sunny Savita: models.
Sunny Savita: Let's say if you wanted to perform the experiment with this model, let's say tomorrow with this model, this model. So, you can choose out any one model.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, for that, guys, what I have done, I have created a model registry. This is the key of that.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now, similar to that, see, if I wanted to experiment with a different data set. So, here you can see I created a data registry. So, let's say I wanted to experiment with this latex OCR, so there's the name of the data.
Sunny Savita: So, here you can see this is the name of the data. So, I'm taking a training part, trained part of the data, this is the image key, here the image will be available, there's the text key, and this is my custom instruction for formatting a data. Now, the same thing over here. So, training part of the data, image caption, this is the instruction, custom instruction.
Sunny Savita: Now, in my dataset also, this is the name, training part of the image, sorry, training part of the data, then image, text, and this is the instruction for formatting the data. So instead of… instead, I can use directly this message key, which I created.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Or I can utilize this particular column, and I can format my data.
Sunny Savita: For the final training.
Sunny Savita: For what, guys? For the final training.
Sunny Savita: Clear? Is it getting clear to all of you? Tell me yes or no. Is this two direct registries clear? Model registry and the data registry? This one?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, after that, guys, what I will do… see, this is my class, vision fine-tuner, so I think init method is clear, this one.
Sunny Savita: So, we have a configuration, we have a model name, dataset name, now here is my variable.
Sunny Savita: So first, what I'll do, I'll call this FastVisionModel.formPretrade, and I'm loading the model.
Sunny Savita: As well as the tokenizer. So this is clear, guys, tell me.
Sunny Savita: Is this part clear, the model loading part? I think we have discussed it many times.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So here, guys, you can see what we are doing. We are going to be load the model, and we are going to be load what? We are going to be load the tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Now, which method we are using? So, this is the method we are using for the loading.
Sunny Savita: This method actually is from where? This is from the onslot.
Sunny Savita: So we have imported this particular model method from the unslot, okay? We are passing the model name. Model name here, then we are loading it into the quantized version.
Sunny Savita: And use gradient checkpointing of the unslot. Okay, so this is… which… this fine-tuning we are doing using the unslot. So gradient checkpointing also we are doing using the onslot. So this parameter is mandatory. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now, can anyone tell me what we are doing over here?
Sunny Savita: Inside, this particular code, code of a snippet.
Sunny Savita: Over here, tell me what we are doing.
Sunny Savita: So if you are looking into this code, so we are applying over here, what we are doing, tell me.
Sunny Savita: So we are applying the… Laura.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This is my PEF technique, P-E-F-T technique. So this is what guys tell me, this is my PEF technique.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now here, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be called this FastVisionModel.getWeftmodel. We are passing the model name.
Sunny Savita: vision layer, okay, which… on which layer, basically, we are going to be apply the LoRa. So on Vision layer, on language layer, or over the attention module, and over the MLP modules, right? So on every module, basically, we are going to be… apply the LoRa.
Sunny Savita: Alright, so we are going to freeze the original weight, and we are going to be… train some subset of weight, okay?
Sunny Savita: Some other weights, actually. Then, this is the configuration of the rank, this is the LoRa alpha and dropout for regulating the overfitting. Bias is none, and random state is this one. This is just to stop the reproducibility, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this is what, guys, this is the configuration of what? This is the configuration of the LoRa.
Sunny Savita: Now, here, basically, what we are going to be written, we are going to be written the model, okay? Means, sorry, we are going to be load the model, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, I hope till here everything is fine. Now, tell me, guys, what we are doing over here inside this particular method.
Sunny Savita: prepare a data set. So, inside this one, first we are going to be load the raw data, okay?
Sunny Savita: So here, basically, we are going to be load the raw data, this one.
Sunny Savita: So my dataset name will be there, and the dataset info, which part of the data we are going to be load, whether it's a train data, test data, or basically validation data. Whenever you will look into the hugging phase, you will find out the data is being divided into the multiple parts. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Then here, guys, I'm taking a subset of the data. Let's say my data set is very huge, so I can select the range of the data, subset of the data, okay? Let's say in my dataset, I have 10,000 rows. So on the entire data, I cannot perform the fine-tuning, so I'm just taking 150 rows for the
Sunny Savita: basically, demo purpose, for the testing purpose, okay? Now here, basically, I have the instruction of the data, image of the data, image from the data, and the text, basically, from the data, okay? Then I'm going to be formatted inside.
Sunny Savita: this?
Sunny Savita: format, okay? Inside this format, I'm going to be format my data.
Sunny Savita: So guys, if you will look into my data, which I uploaded over the hugging phase, so there I have the message key.
Sunny Savita: So, can I directly use that message key instead of formatting over here?
Sunny Savita: I can directly use that message key instead of formatting over here.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no, right? Or else, I can format here as well. I can provide my message.
Sunny Savita: I can pro- sorry, I can provide my image and text, and here also I can format, okay? So directly use this message key. If this is not available inside your data, let's say any other dataset, pre-built dataset you are using, so you will have to format in this particular way.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So I hope, guys, this is also clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what we are doing, we are going to be map this data set, raw data set, with this particular formatting.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This format sample, and I'm getting my data, and here, basically, I'm going to be divide my data into two parts, training and testing. So, testing, basically, is nothing for the internal evaluation, the validation score, which I will get.
Sunny Savita: I will get using this particular test, this one, test size, okay? So, train and test, both data I have, and data load is also clear. This particular method is also clear. Prepare data set is also clear.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I'll do, guys, I will build the trainer. So here, basically, what I'll do, I'll call this Fast Vision 4 Training. I'll be passing my model. My model will be ready, finally. This is my SFT configuration.
Sunny Savita: All the parameters, basically, we are taking from the configuration only. Here, you can see this one. Now, after that, guys, what I will do, I will define my trainer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so my trainer will be initialized over here.
Sunny Savita: Now then, guys, what I will be doing, so I'm calling this trainer. Now, see, guys, the trainer is being called over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, it will start the training.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what will happen? So, see, guys, it will save the tokenizer, and it will save the model also, lower adapter also, so we are going to be saved using this particular method. That's it.
Sunny Savita: So this is what we were doing, if you will look into the code. So first, we are going to create a configuration.
Sunny Savita: This configuration we are passing to the vision fine-tuner class. Okay, so my trainer object is ready. Then I'm going to load the model, then here you can see we are building a trainer, then I'm, sorry, we are preparing a dataset, then we are building a trainer, then we are training the model, then we are saving the model.
Sunny Savita: Is it clear? Is this code clear to all of you? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Is this class clear? Very simple, very easy. If you will go through with this entire code, everything is going to be clarified over here, okay?
Sunny Savita: Tokenizer is there, no? Runner? Just see over here, this is the tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: This is what, guys? This is the tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Are we not quantizing the model? Here is a quantization, this…
Sunny Savita: She was saying it is clear. Quantization is here.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: So tell me, guys, is this entire process is clear? If this entire process is clear, I can show you the inferencing part also.
Sunny Savita: If this entire process is clear, I can show you the inforensic part also. Now, today's code is a bit easy to understand.
Sunny Savita: I hope it is, pretty easy to understand. I designed this code in such a way that
Sunny Savita: you can understand very well, okay? You can, go through with a single class, and everything is written inside this class itself.
Sunny Savita: You just need to be, like, call the specific method in order, or else you can directly call this run method, this particular method, run method, okay? Now, if you will look into the inferencing code, so what we have over here, see? So, first I'll be passing the, basically data, okay? So, sorry, first I'm loading the model.
Sunny Savita: So, my model is, being loaded. So, just a second, where is the model?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so here, basically, guys, you can see… Just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, first, basically, I'm setting the model for the inferencing, okay? So, fast wisdom model for inferencing, and I'm setting my model over here.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I'm doing, I'm loading the data, okay? So, I'm loading what? I'm loading my data. Now, after that, guys, what I will do, I will…
Sunny Savita: format my data, okay? I will take the image, basically, from the data, okay?
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, what is there? So, my user message will be ready, user message is there, role is the user.
Sunny Savita: Okay, then here is my instruction, and then this is my image.
Sunny Savita: Now, this particular message will be passed to where? This particular message will be passed to my tokenizer for the tokenization. So, cell.tokenizer, apply chat template, so message will be passed, tokenization will be there, okay? So, here, basically, my token would be ready.
Sunny Savita: Then, here you can see self.tokenizer, guys. So I'm passing the image and the input text and all, so my input will be ready. So, input text and the input, okay, so both is there in terms of the tokenizer.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, I'm passing it to the text streamer, so it will stream the data, okay? Then I'm passing it to the model for the generation. So, input is there, streamer is there, this is the max token, how many tokens we need to be generated.
Sunny Savita: Temperature and all everything. So, this particular parameter I'll discuss in the rack chapter again.
Sunny Savita: And, then we are going to return the final output, okay? We'll be getting the final output. So, this is all about the inferencing, guys. This is the code for the inferencing. Now, if I will call the inference, okay, I'll be getting the final output. So, let me do one thing, guys. Let me…
Sunny Savita: print it, okay? So, just a second, I'm keeping it inside the print method.
Sunny Savita: So I'll be getting it over the console.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: So, just a second, let me execute it again. This is fine, this is perfect. I'm going to be called this inference one. So, this is a quick infer.
Sunny Savita: trainer.quickinfo.
Sunny Savita: Okay? For the inferencing, it is taking the dataset from the… whatever data we have loaded now, from there itself, it is taking.
Sunny Savita: So, trainer.quickinfo, and so I think you are passing a tokenizer, not the model for the inferencing.
Sunny Savita: Do we need to pass the model for the inferencing? Just a second. What parameter it is taking? Let me check it over here.
Sunny Savita: self, but it takes, it is not taking any model, what it's saying for that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, I think so. Again, I initialize. Fine. I think, again, I initialized this particular class, no?
Sunny Savita: And because of that, it is showing like this. So what I will have to do, again, I will have to load the model, prepare the dataset, build trainer, train, save, and then inference it, okay? That object is overwrite. Because of that, it was showing this particular error.
Sunny Savita: Got it, guys? So once I'll… now, it will be working. Why it will be working? Because, we want the train model. We require the train model. What I did by mistake, actually, I have executed this, object one. Again, I created this object. And because of that only, it was, giving me the error, okay?
Sunny Savita: So tell me, guys, is it clear to all of you, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: If this part is clear, I think we are good to go with the multi-model fine-tuning. So, will you be able to fine-tune any model with the image dataset? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Now, if you wanted to check the tokenized value and all, so you can simply put the print statement over here.
Sunny Savita: you will get the tokenized data, okay? How this data actually looks like.
Sunny Savita: So just print what? Just print this. Input text.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and after this also, you can… Print this input.
Sunny Savita: So you will understand, right, so what kind of tokens you are getting from the images and from the message, right?
Sunny Savita: So, message is here. This is my complete message, guys. This one.
Sunny Savita: So, we are passing it to the, this one, self-tokenizer, apply chat template. So, I'll be getting the input text, and then here you can see the image, basically. So, this is the image which I am getting, okay? So, I'm passing image with the input text, and this is, well, this is my finite, final token.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Inside the input variable, I'll be getting the final token.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: No, I haven't merged it, but yeah, if you want to do merge, you can merge.
Sunny Savita: So the model will be assigned inside this self.model after the training now.
Sunny Savita: It will be there inside the self.model, okay? See, this is my model now, which I am passing for the training. So the LoRa adapter will be over here. So either I can load it from the directory, or I can directly use this particular variable as of now, okay? Inside this same class, I can utilize this particular variable. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, rack concept also you can utilize. This is completely right. So, tell me, guys, how was the session? Did you understand this entire fine-tuning process?
Sunny Savita: how fine-tuning tokenization works. So, this tokenization, basically, it has been specifically created for the image dataset, okay? So, in a same way, basically, it's going to be… see, if you will look into the image, so what is that? It is an array.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it is what? It is an array.
Sunny Savita: Array data, right? So what we can do, we can create a specific kind of tokenizer, which is going to be… convert this image, or this array, into the specific token ID.
Sunny Savita: So, on that type of data, this tokenizer have been created with respect to the images.
Sunny Savita: It's not working on the single pixel, it is working on the entire image, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, we can merge this load adapter. I already provided the code in the previous session, you can utilize that code, RT, for merging the load adapter. I haven't included over here, but if you wanted to include, you can do it.
Sunny Savita: Generally, we go with the racks, okay? And, sometimes only we do the fine-tuning.
Sunny Savita: But a 90-90%, 90-95% problem, we can solve it by a rag itself, where, no need to do the fine-tuning of the model directly, right?
Sunny Savita: So, is it clear to all of you, tell me yes or no, the fine-tuning of the multi-model?
Sunny Savita: I hope so, it is clear. Now, see, this is what? This is my inferencing. Now, here, guys, you can see, this is the inference which we are getting, and see, the image shows an iPhone product with the white background.
Sunny Savita: And, this is basically what… this is the intermediate output, the… this is what is the intermediate output, the input text, as well as the token, basically.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So this is what, guys, this is the intermediate output which we are getting.
Sunny Savita: I think I am printing the output in a wrong way. This is… this is the object, basically, which I'm getting. I think I no need to mention the print statement. It will automatically, represent… it will automatically put it over the console.
Sunny Savita: So you can execute it, guys. Okay, this one.
Sunny Savita: You can execute it, and you will be getting the output, final output, over the console, right?
Sunny Savita: So, this is my text, and this is what… this is my input text, actually, and this is what… this is my image tokens.
Sunny Savita: Okay, intermittent output, over here.
Sunny Savita: Fine, so tell me, I think, this entire code I already provided you, I don't need to provide you any such resources. You can directly take the code from there. Now, what all topics are remaining inside the fine-tuning, so I can again highlight those topics.
Sunny Savita: So, multimodal is done. Embedding fine-tuning, I'll show you in the next class.
Sunny Savita: This two topics is remaining. So, in the next class, guys, we can cover up this OpenAI-based fine-tuning, API-based fine-tuning, and then we can discuss about these concepts also. Okay? The preference alignment concept also. Got it? So, again, it will take, half of the class, or at least one class.
Sunny Savita: So this, after this concept, our fine-tuning chapter is going to be complete, and then we can move to the next chapter.
Sunny Savita: Code is already there, Utkrush, you can check out with the GitHub.
Sunny Savita: It is there. So, I think we have covered every sort of a thing in the fine-tuning. So, guys, tell me, did you understand this fine-tuning in a detail?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: I think many of the concepts we have covered over here.
Sunny Savita: This version, that version, both are same, actually. Nothing is here, so what is still if you want, then I can.
Sunny Savita: Keep it over there, okay?
Sunny Savita: Again, putting the same code, you can take it. So guys, tell me, would you practice with this entire code base?
Sunny Savita: If you're not going to practice, in that case, it will be a little difficult for all of you.
Sunny Savita: So, my suggestion, basically, to practice.
Sunny Savita: And guys, did you complete the NPS also? I think we have provided the link for the NPS. Have you completed that?
Sunny Savita: If you haven't completed, please do complete. So, let me again give you the link of the NPS.
Sunny Savita: I think Rahul has provided in the chat itself.
Sunny Savita: Just a second.
Sunny Savita: Yeah. So guys, just complete your NPS if you haven't completed so far. What you have to do, nothing much.
Sunny Savita: So, you just have to be, like, give the stars, okay? You just have to be, like, recommend the course, if you are willing. It means, you just need to provide the number, that's it. Means in which category you falls, you can,
Sunny Savita: like, give that, number, okay? This is the category. And then you can write your remark, whatever you have, okay? So these, much of… these many things you just, need to complete, for this NPS, okay? It is important, please do it, guys.
Sunny Savita: And again, I'm providing the link of it inside the chat itself.
Sunny Savita: So, tomorrow, guys, we'll go with the GPD fine-tuning, and after that, what I'll do…
Sunny Savita: will, basically, understand the RLHF and all. So that, code is also very easy. Easily we can do it, actually.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so for the text dataset, sorry, for the image dataset, we will be, we'll be just doing the, instruction fine-tuning. Got it, Chandra?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, tomorrow the new batch is going to be start, that is, Agent AK1, right.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, what is your homework for today? Your homework, basically, just to complete this code base, okay? Just to, understand this codebase entirely. Very easy to understand, train it with your own dataset, debug each and every step, what is happening.
Sunny Savita: And I think then you are good to go with the vision fine-tuning also. You can merge the model and all, after that you can utilize that, okay? So, do one thing, guys.
Sunny Savita: take this code, run it on top of it, merge the LoRa adapter, right?
Sunny Savita: And after that, what you will do, tell me.
Sunny Savita: do the forensic, okay? I have used it for the 5 iPhone images. Fine-tune this model on the multiple images.
Sunny Savita: Okay, just take your own image, or anyone's image, and fine-tune, then do the inferencing. So, that kind of exercise you can do. Now, I have one more announcement for all of you. So, tomorrow, guys, I'll give you one.
Sunny Savita: Assignment, okay? What I'm thinking, see, I'm thinking to cover the RLHF, basically. So, tomorrow, or if I'm able to complete the other concept of the RLHF and all the stuff, one more practical is required, RLHF practical. Okay, so I'll give you the assignment.
Sunny Savita: So the assignment basically is going to be related to the fine-tuning. Okay, assignment is already ready.
Sunny Savita: And what you can do, guys? See, you can go through with that assignment, you can solve that. I will give you two weeks of time for that, okay? For the assignment. So, then, guys, one class I will keep for the demonstration. The demo class will be there.
Sunny Savita: So whoever is going to be performed well, okay, so I will be selecting top 5 student.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Top 5 student, and those top 5 students, basically, will get a access of the new batch of this Agent AKI Pro. Okay? So this top 5 student, basically, they will get a access… access of the
Sunny Savita: New. Agentic.
Sunny Savita: 3.0 batch, okay?
Sunny Savita: Or else, I'll check if we can provide you the AI Pro subscription access.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: AI Pro subscription.
Sunny Savita: excess.
Sunny Savita: Now guys, after that, after the RAG module also, in the RAG module, I have designed the multiple assignment, because from there, the more practical thing is going to be start. So, 3 months, I'm aiming for the project, for the RAG and agent, so in that 3 months, 3 to 4 months, we'll be able to complete all those things. And our 90% syllabus will be completed, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, our 90% slabers, what guys? Our 90% slabers will be completed after that. So, inside the rag batches also, I'm, thinking to give you few more assignments, and few more prizes and all. So, some money prizes also I will be distributing inside the class itself, and some, different, different gifts also.
Sunny Savita: So that is from the RAG and from the agentic, module, okay? So, yeah, this is what, basically, I'm announcing, and
Sunny Savita: top 5 student, after the demonstration. I'm not going to be select, you will only select those students, okay? The top 5 student. And then, guys.
Sunny Savita: Basically, you will get the access, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, fine, I hope this is clear to all of you. Now.
Sunny Savita: Video and audio fine-tuning is also… no, that is not a required debug. We don't need to go through with such thing, but if you wanted to explore it from your end, you can explore the Unsloth, framework, okay? There, they have already mentioned.
Sunny Savita: There, they have already mentioned about what? They already mentioned about the video and the audio fine-tuning, mainly the audio fine-tuning, right? But that is not required very frequently in the industry.
Sunny Savita: You will see one case among the thousand cases, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, it is a very rare thing, so we are not going to go… we are not going for that, actually.
Sunny Savita: So, image one, actually, it was an important one. Image 1, actually, it's an important one, so that's why I picked this entire… this specific topic, and even I mentioned inside the syllabus also, right?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Bishak, I'll be uploading those senior-level profile also.
Sunny Savita: I forgot, actually. You can mention in the chat, community chat, I'll pick that message from there, okay, and I'll upload.
Sunny Savita: So, Sobek, I will share that assignment form, don't worry, right?
Sunny Savita: So now you can confidently say to anyone in the interview that I know the multimodal fine-tuning also, and if you are going to do the multimodal fine-tuning in the real time, then yeah, I'm capable for that, actually.
Sunny Savita: Right? But again, this is also rare. Companies are not doing it very frequently. So, yeah. But again, I've shown you one solution so that you can go through with that, and you can get some confidence. Okay?
Sunny Savita: Fine, so I'll see you in the next class, guys. Thank you, bye-bye, take care. There we'll discuss some more new and the important thing.
Sunny Savita: And then, we'll move to the next part. Thank you, bye-bye, take care. I'll see you in the next class.
Sunny Savita: How this new batch is different? Difference is nothing, see? Difference, basically, in terms of the agents, okay? There we are going to discuss the more concept of the agents and all.
Sunny Savita: More deep diving into the agentic part. We are not going to discuss the fine-tuning rag and all.
Sunny Savita: Instead, we'll focus on the agentic side. So, if you want to get a master into the agent, you can go ahead with that patch, okay?
Sunny Savita: And I already announced that I'll be providing the access of top 5 students in my batch. So, yeah, if you are performing well in the assignment, I'll provide that.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sunny Savita: Thank you guys, bye, take care, I'll see you in the next class. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Putting a timer for 3 minutes, I'll be starting doubt session after that.
Sunny Savita: Not this one, where it is, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Okay, thank you guys, bye-bye. Take care.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so let's start with the doubt session. Just a second, I'm giving you the access.
Sunny Savita: Yes, Raghu, Bhagwandas… guys, anyone is there, please go ahead.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah, I'm back on.
Sunny Savita: double grandhas. Please go ahead.
bhagwandas armani: So, actually, right, last week, you explained about the on-slot training model, okay?
bhagwandas armani: So, I am trying with another data, but it is totally giving, like, all crap in the response, actually. So, not sure what to do. I mean, I tried it a couple of times, did I miss out anything?
Sunny Savita: So, how much data points you are selecting, how much data point you are taking for the training?
bhagwandas armani: Data points, it is 19,000, it is there in the data. Number of examples are 15,000.
bhagwandas armani: I stopped at, what you can say, at the 1 30th interval, the epoch.
Sunny Savita: Which, which model you are taking?
bhagwandas armani: The model name is, one second, Gamma2BIT on slot.
Sunny Savita: Show me the result. Show me the output ones.
bhagwandas armani: Can I share my screen?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you can share. And I can see your reviews. You have some concern with the… you are writing…
bhagwandas armani: Okay, no, no, that's got it.
Sunny Savita: part of bed type.
bhagwandas armani: If you reopened that, actually, somebody was playing with that, actually, so…
bhagwandas armani: Okay, so somebody else at my desk, actually, my friend was here.
bhagwandas armani: Congratulations.
Sunny Savita: Or is it…
bhagwandas armani: Can I open that once again? Can you submit?
Sunny Savita: Just a second, I'm promoting as a panelist. First, show me your problem, okay?
bhagwandas armani: Yes, thank you. Join this panel.
bhagwandas armani: Business dirt.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah, this is the one. Okay. I'm using, onslaught camera 2B.
Sunny Savita: No, show me the result.
Sunny Savita: what result you are not finding out about… because, see, you said you are using 50,000 of rows, right? Yeah. So, that's what I wanted to check, means, what is wrong with that? Why you are not able to get the correct answer?
bhagwandas armani: See, the answer is something like this, okay? The question is to the model is, provide a detailed explanation of the events and concerns that led to the outbreak of the World War II.
bhagwandas armani: Okay.
bhagwandas armani: But it's, I mean, not even anything relevant, actually. It's all something it picked out out of his mind, it looks like.
bhagwandas armani: Did I miss something? Did I have to do anything more? I don't know.
Sunny Savita: Just, wait, scroll down.
Sunny Savita: Wait, wait… Can you download this file?
Sunny Savita: Just do one thing.
Sunny Savita: Just download the file, go with the file option.
Sunny Savita: Click on the file, yeah? Download the file as a PY file.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, give it, download it.
bhagwandas armani: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Give me this file in the chat.
bhagwandas armani: What can I give you?
Sunny Savita: Open the chat and upload it over there.
Sunny Savita: No, not here. You can upload in the Zoom chat only, no?
bhagwandas armani: I can just attach it in Zoom chat? Okay, right.
Sunny Savita: Yo.
bhagwandas armani: a screen share.
bhagwandas armani: Try to find the controls, okay… Sure.
bhagwandas armani: Same check is there.
bhagwandas armani: from Europe.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, in the same chat you can upload.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah, yeah, I'm taking it.
Sunny Savita: You go.
bhagwandas armani: Fair.
bhagwandas armani: I've tried a couple of times, not more than… more than a couple of times, actually. Every time it is getting a restart.
Sunny Savita: I think you are doing some mistake while configuring anything or something like that. Because of that, it is giving you that garbage output.
bhagwandas armani: No, that also I tried. I use, what you can say, I have a subscription model for…
bhagwandas armani: Claude, how much…
Sunny Savita: are able to fine-tune this much of data. Are you using pro version of the collab?
bhagwandas armani: No, not provision of the collapse, not regular version of the collapse.
Sunny Savita: then I think this model is not good, maybe you can select some other model.
bhagwandas armani: Okay.
Sunny Savita: I'm finding maybe the issue with this model itself. You can,
Sunny Savita: use any other model in that case. Just a second, let me check from my end with the code, okay?
Sunny Savita: Witch.
Sunny Savita: See, actually, what it is saying…
Sunny Savita: In your code, actually, this, early stopping is the wrong one.
Sunny Savita: Right? You are setting this callback early… early stop on loss, target loss, right? So, something you set over there, correct? Just, show me that part in your… in your.
bhagwandas armani: Right, sure.
Sunny Savita: Are you… yeah, just share the screen again and show me that part.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah, right. So, what is happening is, see, after the 14th interval, right? Okay, after 1.40th, okay, it is going into NAM.
bhagwandas armani: So, then I did some research, how can this topic.
Sunny Savita: No, see, just a second, what you can do now? Just go with the callback one, open the callback.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: callback parameter.
bhagwandas armani: Yes.
Sunny Savita: See, care problem, Na, in starting only, the loss is getting, down, right? 3, 2.5, something like that, in the starting of the training only.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah, right.
Sunny Savita: Which is, like, less than 10. Just show me the callback. And because of that, it is going to be stop it early. And this could be the reason the model is not being trained properly.
bhagwandas armani: So after this, right, after 9, right, it is going into NAM.
bhagwandas armani: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Do one thing, just open the callback, show me the callback.
bhagwandas armani: Sure.
Sunny Savita: Keep, keep it 1.2 here.
bhagwandas armani: Okay, 1.2.
bhagwandas armani: I can write.
Sunny Savita: Just remove it and write 1.2.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Si.
Sunny Savita: This GMA model, which we are using, GIMA 2.0 IT model, right? Yeah, right. This model, actually, it is not trained on the Alpaca dataset. It is not trained on that particular format, actually.
bhagwandas armani: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and because of that also, this format is being wrong, okay, for the inferencing, and you're getting a garbage output.
bhagwandas armani: Okay. Okay.
Sunny Savita: Alpaca, alpaca dataset Format Instruction Context Response.
Sunny Savita: See, just check, with your, dataset. See, here, instruction, context, and response. Wait, wait, wait. Okay? In your prompt, you're writing instruction, context, response.
Sunny Savita: Right? This is a general alpaca format, right? But this GMA2BIT, it is a chat instruction model.
Sunny Savita: So for this one, this instruction is the… it's a bad one. This prompt is a bad one. So because of that, you are getting a garbage output.
bhagwandas armani: Okay. Okay. Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, just write a correct chat format. So, what could be the correct chat format? Just a second.
bhagwandas armani: How can we find?
Sunny Savita: Does…
Sunny Savita: I… you will have to check with the model itself, sir. Apko model may deep dive, you will have to deep dive into the model directory.
bhagwandas armani: That's what I was trying, I couldn't understand, actually. So…
Sunny Savita: No, sir, you are not trying, that's what, see, you are just, like, flowing on the surface level.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: This is the code I've given, just check out with this.
Sunny Savita: And this is the inference code.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, this is your inference code, not this one. Now, replace this inference code with this one. This one.
Sunny Savita: Got it.
bhagwandas armani: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: And here, you will have to set the deterministic output also, while you're generating something, right? So use this one.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside the argument, turning argument, write this max step is equal to 200. Write this also.
bhagwandas armani: I cannot copy from here. Okay, can I copy?
Sunny Savita: Huh.
Sunny Savita: And if possible, then you can remove the callback also.
bhagwandas armani: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Ma'apo, final updated, I'm giving the final updated code bit.
bhagwandas armani: I was always thinking I've given a wrong parameter, or why everybody's given…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, it's about the wrong parameter only. It's not the fault of the model or your process. It's a fault of the wrong, the code snippet which you are using in between.
bhagwandas armani: Okay. I was comparing with your previous code, a lot of… couple of things I was doing.
Sunny Savita: What is still you are writing, sir. These classes are…
Sunny Savita: Yeah. One great student class, huh?
Sunny Savita: That's, like, really strange, huh?
Sunny Savita: Awesome.
bhagwandas armani: This is a complete code, right?
Sunny Savita: Wait, I'm giving the complete code.
bhagwandas armani: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so I'm sharing one link, just check out the link.
Sunny Savita: See, if you're finding the output is not correct again, then tweak this two parameters.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: and… Inside this notebook, you will find out the updated code.
Sunny Savita: I'll share the link, just check out the… Check out in the chat.
Sunny Savita: Just click on that link, you will be directly redirecting to that code. Yeah, this one.
bhagwandas armani: Just copy-paste it, right, before I lost.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, and then, run it and let me know in the next class whether it is working fine or not.
bhagwandas armani: Sure.
Sunny Savita: Yo.
Sunny Savita: Any more thing?
bhagwandas armani: No, that's all. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, think.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next out, Rago, what's your doubt?
Raghu P R: Hi Sunny, am I audible?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you are audible.
Raghu P R: Sunny, basically, I have one scenario-based question. Can I ask…
Sunny Savita: No, no, you're.
Raghu P R: Last week, I was standing next to my manager while he was configuring a model using GPU stack as a GUI for loading models into a GPU.
Raghu P R: basically had 2 GPUs with around 6GB VRAM, I think so. I'm not exact sure of that one. And he wanted to run a quin model by sharing the workload across both GPUs, okay?
Raghu P R: during model loading from Hugging Face into GPU stack, he configured the model to use both GPUs, and initially the VRAM was showing it was 29% on each GPU, okay?
Raghu P R: After that, later he configured the context window to support around 55 requests. Sorry, 15 requests.
Raghu P R: and click it save, then the GPU memory usually jumped up to 96% on both GPU.
Raghu P R: From 26… 29% to 96% after configuring a context window and the concurrent request.
Raghu P R: So, later I got to know that it was KB Cash.
Raghu P R: But my doubt here is, like, why did the VRAM usage suddenly drastically increases that much?
Raghu P R: First question.
Raghu P R: That was me.
Raghu P R: like, why did the VRAM usage suddenly went up? Like…
Raghu P R: Usually, there was… there were no requests at that time.
Raghu P R: He set the configuration, and it did save the.
Sunny Savita: Which, which model you are using?
Raghu P R: I think it's a Quen model, 35 billion parameter, I guess.
Sunny Savita: 35 billion parameter.
Sunny Savita: And Collab Pro you were using, right?
Raghu P R: No, no. Basically, we were using self-hosted GPU.
Sunny Savita: Okay, got it. It was a 2GPU with 6GB of VRAM, right?
Raghu P R: Huh, like, CPU RAM is 96GB.
Raghu P R: And, and, GPU RAM is, I think, 60B, I guess.
Sunny Savita: So, see, this two… I think this two GPU, actually, it is not behaving as a two diff… it's not behaving as a one single GPU.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is the first thing you will have to understand.
Sunny Savita: Got it. That's say you have a 2GPU, 6GB, 6GB, 6GB VRAM, 6GB VRAM, correct? Now, to run one Quan model across both GPU,
Sunny Savita: the tool should support, model shredding, okay? Just check out that concept. I'm… even I'm not much aware about it, because I didn't do the parallel training, but yeah, you can check out the device mapping or model shedding kind of concept. There's one more concept that is called the tensor parallelism.
Raghu P R: Tensor parallelism.
Sunny Savita: So, GPU1, it holds some model layer. GPU2, it holds the remaining model layer. Okay, this is called the model parallelism, or model sharding, or it is called the tensor parallelism.
Raghu P R: Okay, okay, okay.
Sunny Savita: So it is different from the normal multi-GPU training.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: So, just check out with these concepts, I think this will resolve your problem.
Sunny Savita: If still you have any issue, then let me know, okay?
Raghu P R: And I have another one question, like, what is exactly the KV cache?
Sunny Savita: KB cash actually is nothing. Are you aware about the key and value pair, right?
Raghu P R: Yes, yes, yes.
Sunny Savita: So… actually, in one of… in some model now.
Sunny Savita: In Llama model, or in Mistel model, in the latest version of the LLM, actually. So, this, KB, key-value cache concept has been used. Okay. So, what happened now? Whenever LLM generates something, it is going to be generated token by token.
Raghu P R: Yes, auto regression.
Sunny Savita: Correct. So, whenever it's going to be generated a new token, at that time, model is going to be, remind the previous, model is going to be, remember, the previous, like, token, right? It's going to be called the attention of the previous token.
Raghu P R: 30 seconds.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so if it is doing it for… if it is doing it multiple times, if it is, revisiting the complete history.
Sunny Savita: okay, of that generation multiple times, then the generation process is going to be slow, and it's going to take up more memory. To resolve that particular issue, they have introduced a KV cache, so it's going to be stores the memory inside the cache memory, something like that, which I am aware about it.
Sunny Savita: So, just check out with this, concept, okay? KB cache, it's a good concept. In all the latest LLM, for, for the higher context window, they are using this KB Cache concept.
Raghu P R: Okay, okay, okay. Okay.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point. So, if you are going to be using the KB Cache.
Sunny Savita: In that case, your context length could be bigger one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? You can generate more tokens, you can save the, like, this GPU memory.
Raghu P R: Right?
Sunny Savita: So in that, it will help you.
Raghu P R: Okay, basically, the KVK will help me to increase the context length.
Sunny Savita: Context length, and to save the memory, okay?
Raghu P R: Okay, Sunny, got it, got it. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: stink.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Rogo is done. Yes, Shukla, what's it out?
Yash Shukla: I have a few doubts. So, one is, regarding, as you've told about.
Yash Shukla: No. Someone asked in the starting of the chat, I want to ask, in our frontier models like ChatGPT or Cloud.
Yash Shukla: For example, if any incident happened yesterday, then the model is able to, you know, tell about the incident or any new things, if we ask the day after the incident happened. So, these frontier models are trained on a regular basis, every minute or every second, or,
Yash Shukla: They are trained at once and for all.
Sunny Savita: No, they are not trained, actually. So, for that only, they are going to be using some MCP kind of thing. They are, fetching the data in real time from the multiple tools, actually, right?
Sunny Savita: So, it is not trained on the real data. If you will look into the chat GPT and the other applications, so they are releasing the version of the model, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay. So the new version, actually, it is a better one than the previous one. Previous version, okay?
Yash Shukla: Beautiful.
Yash Shukla: So, sir, basically, what is, Madam, the average
Yash Shukla: you know, the difference in time between the two model release, because we don't see model release so, you know, often, like, today and day after tomorrow, or just a week after. We get model updates, very, timely, after 1 month or two months. So…
Sunny Savita: But still… but still it is able to provide the real-time answer, right?
Yash Shukla: Due to the help of NCPs only, sir.
Sunny Savita: Why? Because it is fetching the data in a real time from the internet, and then it is…
Sunny Savita: Building the context around that.
Yash Shukla: Okay, sir. Sir, there was one more doubt. Today, I was working on a project. The project was… consists of three things. One was, doing an LP task, and then,
Yash Shukla: there was another project named as, you know, MLflow. I was just trying about implementing Docker and Kubernetes into the MLOps, so I have to just show you some line of code and to just understand something, so it is…
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, you can showcase. I am adding in a panelist.
Yash Shukla: Fantastic.
Yash Shukla: This one's green visible to you?
Sunny Savita: No, it is not visible.
Yash Shukla: Investigating, so… Sir, is it, North?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, now it is visible.
Yash Shukla: So, sir, the… once I created the project from the plot only with the help of Claude, so I was just, experimenting with the fine-tuning only, which you explained in recent classes. So, the project was… this one was sentiment analysis and named entity recognition.
Yash Shukla: And my model was using distilled birds.
Yash Shukla: So, I was studying many things, and I came to know about this thing, so WNUT17.
Yash Shukla: So…
Yash Shukla: Sir, I had given 5 to 6 hours in this, because everything was working fine, even though… if you can see the result here, the model, were created and stored in the local system, like NEAR Distilbert and Sentiment Distilbert.
Yash Shukla: So, here it was… one thing else, if I can show you, so, this was the thing.
Yash Shukla: Yes.
Yash Shukla: fine-tuning distill button on WNUP. So, do you know something about WNUP? Because, sir, I have been, no, just grabbed in this something error, and it took me around 5-6 hours to just resolve it, and what came at the conclusion, it was…
Yash Shukla: You told at the starting of the fine-tuning chapter that, there were some extensions in which the hugging, face saves the model or the, you know, datasets, like parkit or .safeFrancors.
Yash Shukla: So it said that earlier models were using, something like script files, like…
Yash Shukla: wnut.phie extension, or if you have heard something like colon2003.pie extension.
Yash Shukla: So it was not only, loading in the system, means I was fed up of the thing, like, I've tried so many things. See, for example, this thing, if you can see Eric KTS call-in 2003.
Yash Shukla: it was not only loading, so then it came to conclusion that, we only… we can only now insert new datasets with the Parquet extension or some other extensions. So, how will we sort of know if, these extensions are from which type? Like, they are script files, or they are parked extensions for…
Yash Shukla: Thank you, you can check…
Sunny Savita: You can directly check out with the report itself, no?
Sunny Savita: Right? So, see, actually, whatever repo have been created by someone.
Sunny Savita: to provide you this dataset and all. So they are putting this entire information there, how to utilize that data set repo, which PI file you have to be, like, utilize, or how to fetch the data from there, right? You were talking about that, WNUT7,
Sunny Savita: So, it is nothing, it is just a NAM entity recognized dataset.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Yash Shukla: But, sir, I have, you know, I said I was using it for 5 and 6 hours, but it said that I don't know why it was not working right now. It said that it has become old or something like that.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this is what I'm saying, Gish. I cannot directly, say.
Yash Shukla: Find out,
Sunny Savita: conclusion, until I will not face the same issue, or I will not look into it, right? So, it is difficult. You can share that, result with me, or error if you're getting it next time, so we can look into it. Got it?
Yash Shukla: Also, one more thing, actually, when I was using, the distalbird, so, as you already told it, there are different types of head for different types of functions, like one for sentiment analysis, one for name-entity regression.
Yash Shukla: So it had given me, one, this zero short fine-tuning, and it had given me one, sentiment analysis classification head. It had created one sentiment analysis classification. So, is it we can create our own classic, head for any particular use?
Sunny Savita: You can do it. For that, you will have to, like, add that layer, add layer, and you will have to fine-tune that at the end, okay? So it is possible.
Yash Shukla: Okay, so please.
Sunny Savita: Yeah?
Yash Shukla: I said, did you use any Chinese models for any purpose? If, because I've heard that they use less money or less, tokens, and less, you know, money in comparison to foreign models like Claude or, ChatGPT? Have you used any of them personally?
Sunny Savita: For which, purpose you are saying?
Yash Shukla: Sir, for purpose, like, in the purpose of fine-tuning, or embedding, or API calls, or…
Yash Shukla: purchasing APIs instead of…
Sunny Savita: DeepSeek I have used for the inferencing and for the RAG and the agentic purpose, but for the fine-tuning, basically, see, I have used this, bird-based Chinese, okay, this recording.
Yash Shukla: Correct.
Sunny Savita: The repository is there, you can check out that.
Yash Shukla: Yes.
Sunny Savita: the coin model you can utilize. It is a Chinese model only, okay? Now, one more famous Chinese model is the GLM model.
Yash Shukla: Yes, sir, GLM5, it is something that is very good for coding, and so I was reading about it, so…
Sunny Savita: you can use this model, actually, QuentGLM, Okay.
Yash Shukla: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Yash Shukla: Thank you, Sadhi, for all…
Amit Gupta: Then you may decide.
Sunny Savita: Wait a minute, Teja Suni, you go first.
Sunny Savita: Are you there, Tejasri?
Sunny Savita: Okay, Amit, please go.
Amit Gupta: Yeah.
Amit Gupta: So, actually, my profile is, like,
Amit Gupta: DevOps engineer, and the project is basically the, some kind of A2A agentec frameworks related. Okay, so I just want to know what were the recent courses is coming, like Agentech and…
Amit Gupta: ops, and there is one MLOps that will be, I think, in next month.
Amit Gupta: So, which should be… take apart from this.
Sunny Savita: From where? Sorry. Can you again, please? Can you come again, please?
Amit Gupta: I'm saying there is two courses will start soon, right? Agentic AI 3.0, and one is MLOps. That will be start in July, I think. And this one, Agentic AI 3.0, it will start tomorrow.
Amit Gupta: So, for my project perspective, which should be best for me after this course?
Sunny Savita: For, yeah, for what you can do, you can, basically go ahead with this one, agentic one, okay? Agentic one. It will, it will give you the deep understanding of the agent, and,
Amit Gupta: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: yeah, if any project-related batch is going to be started, I think it is already there, industry-grade project, so you can, take a subscription of that, okay? Or check out with the team, or you can take a subscribe to the AI Pro subscription, under that, you will get every sort of a course access, okay? So, one by one, you can cover after this one. Got it?
Amit Gupta: Okay, so for this, I mean, some subscription is required, so any kind of a coupon or something for us?
Amit Gupta: So… our…
Sunny Savita: Sorry?
Amit Gupta: For any kind of, benefit, if you are taking all the.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, no, AI subscription. So, in that case, basically, you will get the… you will get all the courses access, okay? So, whichever you would like to complete, you can complete.
Sunny Savita: Right? And whatever fees you have given for this modern route, right? So, that will also be subject, and you just need to be paid the remaining amount. Okay, so just check out with the counseling team, they will guide you related to that.
Amit Gupta: Sure, sure, okay. Thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Amit Gupta: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Dink.
Ragesh Moorkoth: Hey, Sunny, connect one next?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, JP, please go ahead.
JP: Yeah, Sunny, yeah.
JP: Yeah, so actually, like, so my profile is related to Java. That continues to the previous question. So, my profile is related to Java.
JP: Now, like, so we are not yet there with the RAG, right? So we are just starting, like, in company, like, just we are starting with the POCs, with the RAG systems and all.
JP: So, we are not yet there in the production systems. So, do you suggest to join the 3.0? Like, it's the genetic framework, the 3.0 batch from tomorrow? Or I need the prerequisites of the generated?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so prerequisite means, you should be good with the, at least GenAI, okay, basics of RAG and agents.
Sunny Savita: At least basics of GenAI, I would recommend, okay? Then you can continue, the agentic part as well. So, we are also going to be learn the agentic, okay? So, you can check, if you want to be more proficient, more specialized in the agentic part, then you can go for that, okay?
JP: So, like, what are the current, until the fine-tuning knowledge, so am I okay to join there?
Sunny Savita: Aha, that is also fine.
Sunny Savita: But, some concept of the rag, okay.
Sunny Savita: So, anyway, we are going to be learning over here. So, yes, Simon Tinsley, you can complete… you can join if you're willing.
JP: Sure. Thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: think.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next. Yes, Ragesh, please go ahead.
Ragesh Moorkoth: Sunny, actually, it's again a related question, like, you know, last two persons asked, right? So, my profile is more like an infrastructure, like, you know, engineer, consultant, like.
Ragesh Moorkoth: How I see these things, right, helping… it's going to help me is kind of automating using those tasks, using Agent, right?
Ragesh Moorkoth: So, my question is, I mean, the way you are explaining, I got detailed insight into it, I was totally new to this, like, you know, all this platform, all those things, I'm totally, you know, able to get it, like, you know, things like that. But I'm not into a development phase, I'm actually kind of, like, a kind of a consumer, like, meaning…
Ragesh Moorkoth: I make use of this model to easy, like, you know, introduce the automation, like, you know, in this. So, agent decay is basically my focus area, but in this course also, it's like, you know, you're going to cover the RAG and MCP, those are things which are required for me.
Ragesh Moorkoth: But do you think, or do you recommend that, okay, see, it is better for me to focus on the H&DKI course, which is upcoming? So, I was just wondering, I mean, is that advice you would give.
Sunny Savita: So, again, it is a, like, it is dependent to you as well, okay?
Sunny Savita: as, as I told you, if you want to be, like, going deep, means, if you wanted a specialization, right? You can go for that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so if you will look into… if you will look our pattern, so we have one data science course, where if someone wanted to learn from scratch, they can go for that.
Sunny Savita: The complete generative AI, which is running currently, right, this course. So there we are covering the broader aspect of the generative AI.
Sunny Savita: RAG, RAG one, right? So, they are basically… we have a specialized in the RAG agent one. Again, agent ticket specialization. Then, again, one more new batch we have launched, advanced one.
Sunny Savita: So they are basically more, research-based things, something like that, right?
Sunny Savita: And then project one also we have. So, likewise, we have categorizer things. So, in which category you… category you fall. So, let's say you wanted to learn the genitive way in a broader way. So, they have this badge fitting to you.
Sunny Savita: Now, if you want to do a deep dive, let's say if you want to deep dive into the agentic one, so you can go for that, you can opt for that, okay? Sequentially, you can go that, go for that, right?
Sunny Savita: So, you can, connect this thing with a simple example. Let's say there is one doctor who is completing his degree, right? MBBS.
Sunny Savita: So this is a generalization course, right? Then he's completing the MD or something like that. It's, like, more specific, focused one. Then he's doing some DM or something like that, okay? Some more focused specialization course in one of the departments, right?
Sunny Savita: let's say neurologic, cardiology, anyone like that only. So, in the same way, basically, you can also approach. So, you can learn the generalized, generative AI from basic to advanced, okay? And then, you can have a specialization in one of the concepts, like, agents, RAG, or then you can deep dive into the project side as well. Got it?
Ragesh Moorkoth: Okay, okay, got it, yep.
Sunny Savita: God. Thank you.
Ragesh Moorkoth: Thanks a lot. Thank you. Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next out, anyone is there? Guys, please go ahead.
Sunny Savita: I'm waiting, if anyone having doubt, please go ahead.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Sandeep, what's your doubt?
Sandeep: Yeah, so, if we go through the code, there was one instruction set, the message, is there, right?
Sandeep: So I wanted to ask if…
Sandeep: for the number of type of instructions that we have to pass, suppose if there are 10,000 products, right? So, do I have to pass the 10,000 messages, or maybe even more, because there could be different context in terms of, you know, what the product could be.
Sandeep: doing, or a service could be doing, right? Like an FAQ, where question and answer kind of a structure is there. So, do I have to pass those 10,000 or whatever number I feel is right?
Sandeep: Or is it just the structure? One structure would be sufficient play?
Sunny Savita: All the 10,000 numbers, you will have to pass in the same structure, actually.
Sunny Savita: For the training, you are asking, correct?
Sandeep: Yeah, yeah, training.
Sunny Savita: For all the 10,000 rows, data rows, if you have it inside the data, you will have to pass, okay?
Sandeep: Okay, so that would be a huge task, right? I mean.
Sunny Savita: For the training, training is a huge task, no? Good training, actually. So, you will require more data for that.
Sunny Savita: For the good training, no?
Sunny Savita: So, 10,000 is, like, small only, for the LLM perspective.
Sunny Savita: LLM is trained on very used data, actually.
Sunny Savita: So, 10,000 is a decent enough if you're trying to be, like, Generate any domain-specific answers, okay?
Sunny Savita: people are training on, like, more than this 10,000 data, some… somewhere, like, around 1 lakh to, like, 1 billion even. So, yeah.
Sandeep: Yeah, and one thing is, you know, earlier we used to have this,
Sandeep: Another way of where the chatbots were… Deployed.
Sandeep: pre-LLM era, okay.
Sandeep: So there, you know, if you say, my orders, and there was
Sandeep: A structured set of, you know, defined Q&A, responses, right?
Sandeep: So, it is similar to that only, that we are passing now, instead of storing that in the database to respond back to the, you know, user, instead of that, we are now passing it to LLMs. It is very similar to that, right?
Sunny Savita: Those are the rule-based chatbot. Okay.
Sandeep: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: Nothing is being… nothing was being generated using the AI there.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sandeep: Even here, we are talking about, you know, sending the role and the, you know, the…
Sandeep: Instruction fine-tuning when we are doing… so we are instructing what to really respond, right, for each type of user.
Sunny Savita: But that is being generated from the AI model, and that is not a deterministic one. If you will generate it 5 times different, different outputs.
Sandeep: Yeah, exactly. So isn't it better that, you know, the previous way of where the chatbots were there, where we used to store the specific Q&A responses and then give the listier options, what.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, if model is capable, then we should go with the current approach, because this is, like, more realistic one, more humanistic. That's why the AI is booming now.
Sunny Savita: because we wanted to, like, replace… the company wanted to replace somehow the human intelligence. Wanted to be, like, reduce the repeated work, human work, right? Human intervention. So, AI is capable for that now. It's mimicking, similar to the human now, right? So, it's a better approach than the rule-based one, okay?
Sandeep: Okay.
Sandeep: But certain times, the deterministic is better, than the probabilistic one, right? Because the response might differ, and as a, you know, if suppose, I'm calling the Airtel service, customer service, right?
Sunny Savita: That also you can do with the, with some logic, with some more, like, engineering and all. You can store the…
Sunny Savita: LLM generator output, the cache for the same question, you can repeat the same kind of answer again and again, the generated answer. So everything is possible, right? Okay, let's say you generated… you give a question to the AI, hi. Then AI is saying, hi, how are you? You always want this, hi, how are you answer?
Sunny Savita: With corresponding to this higher, right? With respect to this higher.
Sunny Savita: So what you can do, you can do that mapping in the backend. So once the answer is being generated, if someone is saying hi, no need to hit the model again, pick this high related answer from the stored space, from the store database, and then give back to the user. That's it.
Sandeep: Okay.
Sandeep: Okay, fine, yeah. That was my question, actually. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Thank you, Sandra.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, no more doubt.
Sunny Savita: Fine, thank you guys, bye-bye, take care, I'll see you in the next class. Thank you.
Sandeep: Thank you.